There's still this institutional
bias in favor of the US equity market
going higher.
>> The bull market it still deserves the
benefit of the doubt.
>> We eventually will see AI adoption
spread.
>> It's accelerating and it's not going to
slow down.
>> This technology is not going to stop so
[music] we have to invest in it.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, [music]
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
[music] into Thursday shooting for the
moon. Elon Musk's SpaceX fighting for
what's set to be the biggest IPO in
history as Sam Altman's OpenAI is
gearing up to do the same in the coming
weeks. Nvidia's Jensen Huang is pitching
investors on the next phase of growth.
Stocks holding steady this morning.
>> Look, the race for AI is profoundly
changing and we can feel this with
respect to just how it's being adopted.
We're hearing about Nvidia's Jensen
Huang saying we now have the agentic era
of AI. You hear companies talking about
where they're deploying staff into AI
and where they're trimming elsewhere.
And the scope of trying to raise money
into this peak frenzy for AI seems to be
escalating. The idea that OpenAI could
be the biggest IPO in history more
[music] than double what the previous
record was which was Aramco gives you a
sense of the [music] size and scope of
the moment.
>> React Alibaba as well. Just unbelievable
numbers. The tech story is changing.
We're going from buybacks to capex, from
shrinkage to tons of supply. I just
wonder what that means for the
investment implications for the next 12
months.
>> When you're talking about supply it's
yes on the data center side although
there still seems to be demand on that
but there's supply when it comes to just
the stocks available and the fact that
suddenly after years of shrinking the
stock market we're suddenly ballooning
it with potentially what could be one of
the top [music] 15 sized companies ever
that is coming as an IPO with a sort of
unproven track record. Yes, it is a
relatively new company even though
people are sort of Yeah, weaving it into
the fabric of their of their companies.
There is so much unknown including the
destination, [music] right? So, it just
gives you a sense of race to something
that you think is going to be great for
evaluation that you think is going to be
right. There's a lot of uncertainty.
>> These companies are huge. We've done a
lot of work in private markets over the
last few years. Looking at the bond
market this morning, need to talk about
fixed income as well. Two stands in 30s,
twos. Let's talk about the front end of
the curve. And the Federal Reserve
minutes, I have to say this, a bit of
daylight [music]
between the minutes and the consensus
that the chairman was meant to represent
in the news conference.
>> When I read the minutes, I thought, why
didn't they drop the easing bias given
how many people raised concerns about
it? What [music] was the argument for
keeping the easing bias? Because
ultimately, I heard a lot of
argumentation about how much this was
going to be a a higher for longer type
[music] of scenario. It would take much
longer to get to that 2% goal. Yes,
there was some discussion of AI
distorting some of the inflationary
inputs. Is that enough to offset it? Do
you want to just discount that? To me,
the idea that many different people
wanted to drop easing bias and that they
didn't. Is that a hawkish tail or a
dovish tail? That even amid all of that
discussion, they still kept it in there.
>> I think you know what Jamie Dimon thinks
about interest rates based on the
comments he
offered to our colleagues over in Asia
overnight. They could be much higher
than they are today. Jamie, of course,
is not a rate strategist. [music] He's a
risk manager and that's a risk we've all
got to talk about.
>> Which is why you haven't seen as much
buying step in when we breach some of
the highest levels going back to 2007.
On the 30-year, right now you do have a
little bit of buying. There is a feeling
this is a global inflationary push and
that there isn't the will at central
banks to really push back. There is a
really interesting irony here that we're
talking about this incredible
fundraising round that we're going to be
getting from all of these tech companies
at the same time that the cost of money
is going up. Why is the cost of money
going up not an impediment to all of
these financing plans? Because right now
it doesn't seem to be. It's a
dissonance, it's a breakdown of the
traditional relationship with respect to
rates and financing activity.
>> Let's turn to equity markets just
briefly. Equity futures this morning
stable just about unchanged. Another
price target just dropped into my inbox.
8020 on the S&P 500. Chris Harvey CIBC.
He's looking for 8020 8020 [music]
and saying this EPS stronger than
expected. How many times have we read
that line following a price target raise
to the S&P 500 in the last 2 months?
It's all about the earnings. When you
take a look at just Nvidia to give
[music] you a sense of how much earnings
have increased, they doubled their
quarterly sales since the first quarter
of 2025 from 40 billion to more than 80
billion. [music] It gives you a sense of
how quickly some of these companies are
rapidly growing. Even Target though
outperforming, you're seeing companies
I'm sorry Tom Keene adjust and adapt and
start to push forward [music]
in order to monetize a moment even if
the economy isn't going gangbusters.
>> Well Ma, up next delivering numbers a
little bit later this morning. Coming up
this hour catch up with Peter Chair of
Academy as the market gears up for a
series of mega IPOs. The Vac Area of
Bank of America on the lukewarm response
to Nvidia's blockbuster results. And
Vishal Khanduja of Morgan Stanley as Fed
officials leave the door open for an
interest rate hike. We begin this hour
with stocks edging higher as investors
digest the latest earnings from Nvidia
and the IPO pipeline is heating up as
SpaceX and OpenAI make moves to go
public. Peter Chair of Academy
Securities joins us around the table for
more. Pete, good morning, good to see
you.
>> Hey, good morning. You saw that opening
exchange that we just had around these
IPOs. The tech investment story has
changed. We've gone from buybacks to
lots of capex. We're moving away from
shrinkage towards maybe tons of supply.
What does that mean for the investor in
this space? You know, right now I think
it's all hands on deck. Everyone's
growing, everyone's spending the money
to do it. And you're asking the
question, you know, what's the
disconnect? I think right now there is
so much money to be made in the AI space
that whether it's 4%, 6%, 8% on interest
rates is trivial. Same sort of thing I
think we've been talking about this for
the last little while. Electricity
prices, right? You and I are being
affected, but the AI data centers they
could care less, right? It's such a
trivial input relative to what they're
making. So, I think we're with this tale
of two economies. You've got the AI data
center growth and it's booming.
Everyone's trying to get into it.
Everyone's rushing headlong. You're
seeing more and more companies get into
it. This is also why I think Nvidia's
earnings aren't as important cuz there
are so many tells what's going on. But,
the rest of the economy is kind of
languishing, it feels like. The jobs
aren't there, and the degree of
uncertainty, I think, is hitting
spending. We'll spend some time with
that in just a moment. Let's just talk
about potential constraints. Lisa gave a
nod to them. You mentioned energy.
That's been widely discussed. Lisa
mentioned capital. What are the
prospects of capital constraints given
how much money is being demanded right
now both in fixed income and in equity
in the coming year? So, one thing I
think we're seeing is a little bit of a
shift where people are much more
comfortable owning corporate credit than
Treasuries. And I think Treasuries have
become a very generic asset. I think
that's one reason you see some pressure
on Treasuries. As far as I can tell,
when we're talking to our large asset
managers,
they're all in on credit. They love
credit. It's cheap. You're getting the
higher yields than the Treasuries, and
you've got a compelling story there. And
you're even seeing some of this play out
in the super sovereign space. And, you
know, kind of wacky to even talk about
some of the super sovereigns, but they
are trading at their closest spreads
ever to US Treasuries. So, you have, I
think, this kind of not aversion to US
Treasuries, but it's just a generic
asset, right? If you're in Germany now,
buy bonds. If you're in Japan, buy JGBs.
So, I think Treasuries don't have as
much interest, but people are piling
into credit, and they're looking at
these opportunities saying, "Well, maybe
I want to own XYZ's bonds. I'm getting
extra 50, 60, 80, 100 bips, and I think
the risk is better, and I want And for
credit people, it's the only way to play
some of these AI stories."
>> And it seems like right now the bigger
risk is inflation rather than any kind
of hit to growth. Nobody is pricing in
recession. No one's pricing in some sort
of serious downturn. Do you agree that
credit and equity are better hedges for
the inflation risk, and that is where
people should be looking? So, I I
I I like credit on that perspective. I
think it's kind of an interesting place
to be. Again, I I we're not seeing
recession, though there is this tale of
two economies. Again, I I like what
you're seeing is
in the rates market, if you went back 3
months ago, and I thought before the war
started, we could cut. And if we cut,
even if it was an aggressive cut, we
could control the long end of the bond
market. Right now, I don't think we can
cut without controlling the long end of
the bond market. I think if we cut rates
right now, we would lose control over
the long end of the bond market. So, I
think we're higher for longer, and
that's here, it's across the globe.
Defense spending's ramping up
everywhere. So, I think you've got some
pressure there. But again, I still think
we're in that 3 to 5% inflation period.
Um you know, there is a lot of
excitement. I think the bond market has
one more leg to higher yields, cuz the
one thing people keep arguing to me is,
"Well, we're going to get all this
benefit from AI. We're going to get kind
of deflationary pressure from AI." That
may be true, but I think the next year
to 2 years, it's all about the cost of
build-out rather than the benefits of
AI. You talk about the tale of two
economies, and this idea that we could
get significantly higher rates as a
result of this push higher. I just
wonder at what point the story start to
come together. It seems like either
there's a bubble in human capital or
there's a bubble in the cost that
companies are paying for tokens and
access to some of these AI models. They
are justifying the increased cost by
increased productivity and then laying
off staff in order to free up the cash.
At what point does that become an
unsustainable equation?
>> think over the next 6 months to a year,
people will actually for the first time
really be able to say, "Here's what I
spent on tokens. Here's what I kind of
could have spent on employees." And make
that decision. Cuz until now until
fairly recently, right? It was all kind
of
who knows what we're spending. You
you'll get these kind of deals. So, I
think this will actually let people to
take a closer look, and it will be scary
if AI turns out to be much cheaper than
people. The problem is, you know,
someone's cost is someone else's like
customer, and I don't know where all
that heads. I had to write about UBI or
universal basic income 2 weeks ago cuz
it felt like this is a topic that's
going to come up. I really kind of hate
the concept, but you can clearly see a
path where if we are doing these
layoffs, and unlike dot-com, where I
think everyone was excited, there was so
much angst around this from a personal
level. Um
I I don't think we've ever seen anything
like this and we're heading into a
election season and the country's
already very divided on many things. AI,
electricity generation, these just seem
to be massive political risks.
>> We just skipped to the final chapter of
the book. But since we're there, let's
flick a few pages over. What's the
policy response going to be to all of
that if that is indeed the end
destination?
Uh, you know, I think you're going to
get politicians who are going to fight
electricity, who are going to fight data
centers because it's populist. You're
going to get some who decide to embrace
it and I think you're going to see I
think you're going to see a shift in
where people are moving in this country.
I think this is a part of our overall,
you know, as we re-industrialize, I
think you're going to see the heartland
of America do very well. I think you're
going to see, you know, between the
Appalachians and the Rockies continue to
do well. Last year I think was the first
time in 30 or 40 years that that part of
the country beat the rest of the country
in population growth and GDP growth. I
think you're seeing some of the low per
capita red states in particular embrace
these things. They're like, "Hey, we
want the jobs. We're comfortable. We
will deal with the pollution. We will
deal with the after- effects of some of
these and I think that you're going to
see an opportunity to reshape where
people live and the demographics in this
country. And if anything on a real
estate side of things, I'm very bullish
on the Great Lakes region, on the
heartlands, the traditional
manufacturing because they have the
fresh water, the weather's actually
conducive to this, they've got the
engineering schools. I think that could
be one of the shifts that we see over
the next 5 years is this kind of flood
to the coast and to deep south changes a
little bit as people realize, "Hey,
there are places that do this and if
we're going to do industry, we need
electricity and we need fresh water and
that's in abundance in some of these
regions that people have today.
>> the rabbit hole, what are you bearish
on? You alluded to it. What would you be
short in that kind of world? You know,
right now I'm very cautious about
anything that requires a deep spend for
my personal standpoint. I think even the
people with jobs are looking carefully
at their spending. So, I think
construction, homes, I
this affordability is so real and again,
that kind of drives me I I think some of
the really expensive places that, you
know, grew up very quickly, especially
with the you know COVID sort of
experience. I think I would avoid those
areas. I think there's a chance that
people decide this was too expensive. I
made bad decisions. Where I live, I
actually live more in the swamp than on
the ocean. And you have some potential
for that too.
>> That's our personal hell. Uh sorry about
that. No. But
but I I think that's I want to be a
little bit bearish there. I think some
of the growth areas done. And I I just I
get really uncomfortable with where the
spending is going to come from. And once
again, I get to spend this weekend doing
something completely boring, but looking
through the jobs data. Sure.
>> Cuz so many people are now asking, why
is there a disconnect? Why do we see
nothing but doom and gloom on jobs, but
the last two headline reports from NFP
have been really really strong? What
should your gut tell you?
That I think it's once again very
overstated. I think we're you know, to
me one of the biggest mistakes that the
BLS does is they this birth-death model
which tries to estimate jobs created by
new companies. They continue to look at
EIN or employment identification number
applications to judge that. And I think
we live in a world where EIN kind of
like law school applications go up when
people are worried about their jobs. If
all of a sudden you're like, well, maybe
I'll drive Uber on the side or do
something. There's whole companies now.
I can't remember. Someone just told me
one of the big uh fintechs. They have a
whole set up. You go click yes, it sets
you up in an LLC, it gets you an EIN,
you can do all your taxes and get all
that. So I I think we're once again
making this mistake and seeing, oh
people are creating new businesses. I
think it's much more people are so
nervous they're joining the gig economy
to supplement their income.
>> This was a depressing start to the
program, but we appreciate it. Thank
you, sir. No, thank you. Put your chair
back in security.
>> [laughter]
>> It's a lot to think about there, Pramo,
on this technology revolution that's
taking place in this country and around
the world.
>> Yeah, and the CEOs of companies are
taking different approaches. You have
the Standard Chartered approach talking
about the low value human capital which
generated a lot of backlash. Or you
could just say, look, you might not like
it, but this is the world we live in and
we have to play ball. And so the
question is as a society how you sort of
message this, and how do you create a
network so that it doesn't end up with
the same kind of outcome as some of the
more pernicious sides of global growth.
>> if you don't want the backlash, don't do
what Standard Chartered did. And based
on the reports I've seen from Meta,
where basically now they're training the
AI
on the habits of their own staff to
ultimately possibly replace them further
down the road. I don't think that's the
message you want to be sending to the
general public right now. It's a morale
killer. It's also a PR killer at the
same time. More companies are doing it
because for them to transition to a more
AI-based infrastructure, they've got to
prepare for it using the data that they
are that they're getting from their
current employees.
>> Equity futures this morning just about
unchanged on the S&P 500 with an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Yahaira has more. Hi Yahaira.
Good morning, John. [music]
President Trump saying the US is in its
final stages of the war with Iran. Trump
maintaining that the US would resume
attacks in the coming days if Iran
didn't agree to his terms. Iran's
[music] president has insisted the
country was not on the brink of giving
in.
A majority of Federal Reserve officials
warning the Central Bank would likely
need to consider raising interest rates
if inflation continued to run
persistently above their 2% [music]
target in the minutes from the last FOMC
meeting. Many called for the Fed to drop
its easing bias and signal its next move
>> [music]
>> could be a rate hike.
And Samsung could distribute a bonus of
up to 40 trillion to chip [music]
employees this year after the company
struck a deal to avert a strike.
Employees will receive on average 513
million won, equivalent to $340,000.
The bonus program will continue every
[music] year for 10 years as long as
certain profit targets are met. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yahaira,
thank you. More from Yahaira later this
hour. Up next on the program, Wall
Street raising the bar for Nvidia.
The narrative is out there that, you
know, this is they're not 90% of the pie
anymore that they have to split [music]
this pie with more players. Earnings
momentum and the overall AIGP roadmap is
not enough of a new narrative for
investors to get excited.
>> [music]
>> That conversation up next with Vivek
Arya of Bank of America live from New
York City this morning. Good [music]
morning.
In the next hour, [music] another read
on retail in America. The ultimate read
we'll hear from Walmart at 7:00 a.m.
Eastern time [music] around then. We've
already heard from Target earlier this
week, the best sales growth in 4-5
years. TJX raising its sales growth
expectations. Carver in the restaurant
business
>> [music]
>> raising its annual sales outlook. So far
this week, if you're looking for pockets
of weakness, I know it's cherry-picking
season whenever it's earning season, but
I can find you a couple of decent
stories so far this week. And the
guidance from a lot of these
retail-focused or consumer-focused
companies has been that the consumer is
still resilient. They're still spending.
[music] Do we get the same thing from
Walmart? The key tell to me is how much
can they raise prices, right? How much
are they being driven in terms of any
kind of increase [music] in sales from
volume and how much is it being driven
by increases in prices that they are
able and willing to pass along and that
ultimately might give [music] a sense of
how much inflationary pressure there's
in there is under this resilience.
>> Equity futures right now into that
positive by 1/10 of 1% [music] on the
S&P 500. Decent gains in the last 24
hours snapping a 3-day losing run on the
Nasdaq going absolutely [music] nowhere.
Decent numbers from Nvidia, but that
stock can't catch a bid this morning.
Under surveillance this morning, Wall
Street raising the bar for Nvidia.
For the moment, we haven't seen any
slowdown yet, but the narrative is out
there that, you know, this [music] is
they're not 90% of the pie anymore that
they have to split this pie with more
players. Earnings momentum and the
overall [music] AIGP roadmap is not
enough of a new narrative for investors
to get excited. I think take AI
definitely has become a key focus. So
here's the latest [music] this morning
on Nvidia shares flat in the pre-market
up just 0.6% after the chip maker's big
earnings beat was met with skepticism
from investors. Vivek Arya of Bank of
America raising his price target to 350
writing we ignore the noise and focus
instead on Nvidia's unique full stack
positioning of the largest and fastest
growing tech market of all time. Vivek
joins us now for more. Vivek, thank you
for making time for us this morning.
When you say noise, what are you talking
about?
Sure. Good morning, John. So I think
there is fundamentals and then there is
positioning.
When you look at the fundamentals, they
are off the charts. But the positioning
tends to be rather full because this is
the largest company in the S&P 500. But
let's talk through the fundamentals
first.
Results were exceptionally strong. Sales
are growing over 80%. I don't know of
any other, you know,
multi-trillion-dollar company that is
growing sales and this is their third
straight quarter of acceleration of
sales. The sales are very diversified
across hyperscalers, across neo clouds,
sovereign, on-premise enterprise, and
increasingly the edge AI, the robotics
opportunity. Gross margins are holding
up extremely well at 75% despite all
this memory price inflation. And then
they also raised their dividend by a
factor of 25. So now the dividend yield
is actually higher than Apple's dividend
yield. So I think from a fundamental
perspective, Nvidia is doing everything
right. But the positioning aspect is
sometimes what weighs on
the stock because eight out of 10
investors own it and own it in
reasonable size. But if you look at the
stock itself, it has outperformed the
broader S&P
500 over any six or 12 month uh So very
strong fundamentals, but kind of full uh
positioning, and that's always kind of
the tug-of-war uh with the stock.
>> There is an additional risk factor that
you acknowledge beyond just positioning
and ownership. You say this, that
hyperscaler customers have the desire to
create, deploy more custom chips in lieu
of expensive and potentially supply
constrained GPUs. You note that, Vivek,
as a risk factor. What's the biggest
counterpoint to that thesis in this
market?
Oh, sure. So, if you look at any
hyperscaler, they have a mix of
workloads, right? There is a lot of
internal uh workloads. So, for example,
if you're Google, there's a lot of
internal workloads that have to support
search and YouTube and and Maps and
other Google properties. But then,
Google also has a very uh large and
growing uh public cloud. Same thing with
Amazon, same thing with Microsoft,
right? Meta is almost all internal
workloads. So, usually for internal
workloads, what we are seeing the
hyperscalers do is use a lot of their
internal uh custom chips. But for a lot
of the public workloads, where the
infrastructure needs to be uh very uh
flexible, because you just don't know
what the customers' uh requirements are
going to be, that is where you tend to
use a lot more GPUs uh from Nvidia,
because it's an exceptionally flexible
architecture. It is basically uh
plug-and-play. So, overall, from an
industry perspective, Nvidia is keeping
70%
of the value of this industry. But you
know, if you have an industry where you
have 500 to 600 billion of sales that
can grow over, you know, to trillion
dollar of sales, even a 30% of that
industry is still a lot of uh money. So,
as the size and scope of this industry
uh grows, I think you will see these two
phenomena concurrently, where you will
see the hyperscalers continue to adopt a
lot more of these uh custom chips for
their internal workloads and sometimes
for external workloads. But for the most
part, we think that the public clouds,
uh neo clouds, uh sovereign on-premise
enterprise will still prefer to use
Nvidia, and And why we think that even
as this industry grows and Nvidia can
keep over 70% of the value of of
whatever is being deployed in AI
infrastructure. Vivek, do you think that
at some point Nvidia is going to be
pressured to lower the cost of some of
the infrastructure, some of the chips,
of some of these tokens, etc. in order
to make them a better value proposition
to some of the alternatives you were
talking about?
Uh yeah, I think there is always that uh
pressure because you are dealing with a
very sophisticated group of uh
customers. Um right? They they don't
care about your brand name per se, they
care about price, they care about uh
performance, they care about uh
reliability of uh supply. Um you know,
they care about the fact that uh you're
not just throwing a chip at them, that
you're really and that's why we always
continue to stress full stack. What does
full stack mean? It means that you are
optimizing your silicon, your hardware,
your systems, your power, your software,
you have a base of developers. So even
though your upfront cost might be higher
than using a custom chip, the ease of uh
deploying this is exceptionally strong,
right? We saw recently uh XAI uh gave
some data on how quickly they have been
able to install Nvidia gear and with
every new generation of Nvidia chips, it
is uh taking them a lesser amount of
time to install that. So that's a big
advantage. Number two, every new
generation of Nvidia products, you know,
you see their content go up by a factor
of 50 or 60%, but then you actually see
that the performance is going up by a
factor of three to 10 times.
And that is why on a uh kind of a cost
per token basis, we continue to see this
uh deflation and I think that that's
what the customers care for. It's ease
of deployment, it's reliability of
supply, and the fact that uh the cost
per token continues to drop using this
infrastructure. Going forward, what do
you think right now we should be looking
for in terms of just ongoing adoption
with the potential for four to five
trillion dollars of spend every year,
which is what Jensen Huang was talking
about. Right.
You know, I think there is this uh race
uh between
uh a lot of uh the public hyperscalers,
um and then, you know, there are two uh
very, very important technology
companies that are still private, OpenAI
and Anthropic. They are essentially in
this race with steroids, right?
Literally uh speaking in that uh
figuratively uh speaking in that they're
really pushing the ecosystem to adopt
and build out this intelligence layer as
quickly as uh possible. And they're
doing so in the midst of what is a
rather supply constrained industry,
right? That is constrained in wafers and
substrates and memory and and and optics
and and CPUs. So, the industry is trying
to move extremely quickly uh in the
midst of supply uh constraints. You
know, there is a buildout of this global
uh intelligence uh layer, um and I don't
think this this race is going to stop uh
anytime uh soon. And this race is not
just confined to the US. We We think
it's it's a global race, and that's why
we think this can continue until the end
of this decade at a minimum. Hi, Vivek.
Appreciate your time, buddy. It's good
to see you. Vivek Hari there at Bank of
America, the constructive [music]
bullish view on Nvidia this morning. Up
next on the program, Amrita Sen of
Energy Aspects as the deadlock [music]
in the Middle East rolls on. We'll catch
up with Amrita in Washington, D.C. in
just a moment. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> This story from the journal this hour,
some breaking news for you from the Wall
Street Journal. The Trump administration
awarding $2 billion in grants to nine
quantum computing companies. One of
them, [music] this stock right here,
IBM. The department has agreed to give
IBM $1 billion
of the package. That stock is up in the
premarket by close to 9% [music]
in early trading. Yeah, and that $1
billion is of the total even though
there are considerably numerous names
within this. It's a real question here
of exactly how the US is deploying its
equity stakes in which companies [music]
and how, what they're trying to get in
on so that they can ride this wave. It
just gives you the sense of the next
phase of this. I mean, we've heard about
quantum computing being used by places
like HSBC. How much is this the next
phase of the agenda of adoption?
>> Looking to build out capacity for the
next frontier in this [music] country,
in America. That's a single stock story.
More of them in just a moment. Let's get
to the index level on the S&P 500 equity
futures so far this morning, negative by
third of 1%. Another upgrade to the
outlook, this time from CIBC and Chris
Harvey. Looking for 80 [music]
20. It's very simple. It's on earnings.
And we've seen that repeatedly. Even
began even since the start of this war
began. We've seen it repeatedly [music]
from Morgan Stanley,
from RBC,
and Jean Erdeni from Barclays, and now
from CIBC. Yeah, and frankly, even some
of the people who have been bullish are
coming out and reiterating the bullish
[music] stance. Max Kuttner following on
just after that saying they continue to
be tactically max overweight equities
even though you see treasury yields
hitting the danger zone. And they
explained why the danger zone hasn't
been the danger zone and why they can
look past it. And the answer? Earnings.
Earnings have great volatility. [music]
We'll see it in the note in the
commercial break. Not as high as it was
in the last few years.
>> I mean, to me that suggests that [music]
people are looking for reasons for why
this has not been a crimping factor.
Other people just point to the fact that
the enthusiasm for AI is triumphing over
any concern about rates. Nonetheless,
the idea that rate volatility and this
idea that earnings are coming in strong,
people are still feeling really The
warming price of corporate earnings in
America lifting this equity market close
to all-time highs. In the bond market,
twos, tens, 30s look like this. Let's
look at the front end of the curve,
4.1%. Now, I'll give you a choice, a
decision. Maybe you've got an
alternative view [music] on what
happened here. But either the chairman
did a dreadful job
of representing [music]
the consensus on the committee in that
news conference or they massage the
minutes to make them sound a little bit
more hawkish than the meeting actually
was. That is exactly the right take. You
could ask reading those minutes, given
the messaging here, it was ridiculous
that [music] they didn't drop the easing
bias. Why didn't they drop the easing
bias? What was the argument to keep the
easing bias despite all these
inflationary pressures and the fact that
the majority of the committee seemed to
be seeing inflation higher than 2% for a
lot, lot, longer. That said, I think
[music] that your second point is right.
How much is this telegraphing that
they're not going to be cutting rates
anytime soon?
>> Just got a small headlines from Reuters
just [music] on the Iran situation.
Let's turn to crude, Brent and WTI. This
from the supreme leader who we've still
not heard from directly. Haven't heard
his voice at all
>> [music]
>> throughout all of this. Crude is higher
by 1.5% Brent crude up to 106. WTI back
through 100. The supreme leader issuing
a directive on uranium which of course
is a key part of the negotiations with
the United States. [music] The Iranian
supreme leader says the Iranian must
stay in Iran. Now, that headline alone
and we'll look for further context but
let's just run with that headline alone.
With that headline alone, you'd have to
say that it would be very, very
difficult to come to an agreement with
the US based on that statement. And
[music] right now, the fact that you're
not seeing oil prices rise more gives
you a sense of just how people are not
very concerned. I will say what did get
people excited yesterday was the fact
that two [music] supertankers carrying
Iraqi oil to China passed the Strait of
Hormuz with the greatest amount of oil
to traverse that particular strait going
back to the onset of this conflict.
They're looking for proof points, not
necessarily rhetoric.
>> So, with those headlines, the gains in
places like Europe in the equity market
flipped to losses [music] and you're
starting to see a pick up in the price
of crude. We'll come back to that in
just a moment. As we count you down to
the open about, let's get you some
single names and morning movers. Yohai
has more. Hi Yohai. Hi John. Let me
start with Tesla. Those shares up 1% in
the premarket as the SpaceX IPO filing
unleashes fresh excitement around
[music] anything having to do with Elon
Musk as he prepares to be at the helm of
two separate trillion-dollar publicly
traded companies that could become one.
It's something that we've heard before
and it was the subject of a Dan Ives
note yesterday saying it's a possibility
since uh Tesla already owns a stake in
SpaceX and the two already have joint
projects like the Terafab
>> [music]
>> semiconductor facility. Speaking of
semiconductors, we are seeing shares of
Nvidia. They have flip positive up just
about 3/10 of a percent even after it
posted a beat and a raise. The sign
investors may have simply gotten used to
this [music] company posting massive
beats. And remember, the stock had
already run up about 10%
uh for uh in [music] the past month as
we saw all of its customers post
stunning earnings, stunning CapEx
numbers. So, this may be a story of the
good news already being priced in. And
we end on another stock of Intuit.
Shares are plunging nearly 14%. It also
posted a beat and a raise, but investors
are focused on its um on [music] weaker
results in its TurboTax business. And
this un- and its plans that it's going
to cut roughly a fifth of its workforce.
And those developments are just adding
[music]
to growing concerns in the software
industry that if AI can increasingly
handle [music] uh things like tax prep
on its own, what does it mean for these
companies that are built around that
work,
>> [music]
>> John? Yohana, thank you. Thank you for
the update. More from Yohana later this
hour on our radar this morning. Nvidia
shares holding steady after a robust
first quarter earnings and high rewards
for investors. Wall Street setting a
high bar for the chip maker, questioning
the growth story in the competitive AI
market. Elsewhere, SpaceX filing for
what stands to be the largest IPO in
history with a $75 billion funding
target. The company revealing billions
in losses along with a plan to give Elon
Musk near total control over the company
and up to a billion shares. And finally,
OpenAI gearing up to file a confidential
IPO as soon as tomorrow. People familiar
with the matter telling Bloomberg the
company is looking to debut sometime
this fall. Goldman and Morgan Stanley
working on the filing in the race to get
ahead of rival Anthropic.
>> So, they're trying to ride the
enthusiasm from Cerebras and get ahead
of Anthropic at a time when people have
been skeptical about some of its
valuations. Nonetheless, they want to
come as the largest IPO in history. I
really can't stress enough how much of a
divergence you're seeing in terms of
total value. I think they're going to
raise $60 billion. That's the estimate.
And it's less than $30 billion for the
second biggest what would be now what
was the largest the Aramco
initial public offering. Massive scope
and scale for an industry at the heart
of this race for AI.
>> What are these intriguing side stories
with the personalities as well? Altman
and Modei, also Altman and Musk. It's
quite a big race for the year ahead.
Yeah, Altman versus the world.
>> Right, same like
>> And a lot of people have kind of soured
on the story of Sam Altman. How much
does that play into the appetite? So far
it doesn't seem like that much given the
fact in the recent round of funding it
was some north of $800 billion
valuation. So, this could be a trillion
dollar IPO.
>> Let's get you that breaking news in the
energy market. Crude moving higher as
the Iranian supreme leader says the
uranium must stay in Iran according to
Reuters reporting just moments ago.
President Donald Trump insisting a peace
deal with Tehran is still in its final
stages.
If we don't get the right answers, it
goes very quickly. It would have to be a
complete 100% good answers. And if we
do,
we save a lot of
time, energy, and lives, most
importantly. It could go very quickly.
Or a few days. It could be a few days.
I'm not doing any relief until they sign
an agreement. Tehran reportedly
assessing the latest US proposal to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. AnneMarie
joined us now from Washington for more.
AnneMarie, that breaking news moments
ago turned around this market. Equities
lower, crude turning a little bit
higher. What do you make of that report
from Reuters?
Yeah, crude turning higher Jonathan
because the Israelis have made it very
clear in order for them to view that
this war is over. The highly enriched
uranium that Iran has needs to be gone
or be taken out of the country and put
into a third party or the United States
needs to deal with it. So I'm guessing
the market market is just viewing this
as a negative towards any time soon that
we can get a deal between Tehran and
Washington and we can bring in Amrita
Sen now of energy aspects for a little
more insight on this. Amrita's Jonathan
said the market turned around on this
report from Reuters
that the supreme leader has issued a
directive that the country's near
weapons grade uranium should not be sent
abroad. Does the market now start to
view that potentially the president's
going to have to go back to strikes?
Well, I think the market isn't pricing
that fully in yet, right? It's not full
escalation, but I what I would say is
that look, we've been very skeptical
each time there are these headlines of
from Pakistan, from the US
administration or we're near we've been
talking about being near
to a deal for several weeks, even months
now. The market tends to sell off faster
partly because Brent positioning is
still long, but in reality neither side
is willing to make any significant
concession and I think this is exactly
proof of that. What Iran's supreme
leader has said and it does suggest at
least from the interpretation
the markets going to probably come up
with is that no, the a deal isn't near
anytime soon, which is what you know,
which is why prices came off last
evening.
So it's basically living in as one guest
told us yesterday continuous purgatory.
Why then are prices still capped at this
level around 100 for WTI and 110 for
Brent?
Look, that's a great question and
something we do a lot of analysis on
internally as well because you would
think given the scale of the supply
losses we should be potentially even
double, right? What we are seeing is
record levels of destocking. We did some
analysis on this. We did start the
conflict with with about close to 400
million barrels of excess inventory.
And so we've run down, call it almost
like half of it. But then we've also
been drawing down SPR at record levels,
right? So what we are seeing is that the
market's in a massive deficit. We really
haven't gone into outright shortages
yet. We calculate that's about a month
and a half away. So it gives us till end
June. But what I worry about is that
everyone, right? And I've been on the
road for a couple of weeks now.
Everyone's hopeful that okay, the
straits are going to reopen end of June.
First it was end of May, then it's now
end of June. And we are really living
hand to mouth right now, running down
those inventories. End June comes close
to that. Refiners around the world, I'm
in Asia right now, are extremely
under-bought. Then when they do come to
the market, I think the pick-up in
prices will be material. And that's when
we can get the overshooting to the
upside because there is a sense
Complacency is the wrong word, but hope
that things start to pick up a little
bit and we can just get by just running
down inventories. And then restocking is
a problem for the future.
So Amrita, you're saying by the end of
June we're going to hit tank bottoms and
we're going to see a risk higher for
crude. How much higher?
I don't think we'll hit tank bottoms
globally, to be clear. But I think there
are definitely parts of the world. I
mean, look, China stocks for months and
months, right? China's not going to have
problems. But there are definitely other
parts of the world, be it Asia for
crude. And look at product stocks in the
US. We are very quickly racing towards
tank bottoms in parts of the US as well.
So yes, there will be pockets where we
hit tank bottoms. But when that happens,
then physical markets, not financial
markets again, that's a separate story.
It's a little bit broken right now.
Liquidity is really thin. And again, all
the tweets coming out uh doesn't give
markets a lot of confidence to put on
positions. But, the physical market,
you're likely to see prices go up to
previous highs. We've seen crude trade
at 160, 170, potentially even higher if
you are genuinely stocking out in parts
of the world.
Amrita, thank you so much for that.
Amrita Sen of Energy Aspects. And
Jonathan, as Amrita's on the road, what
she's hearing is that those inventories
we are now half being drawn down.
Everyone is going to have, when they
look at their calendar, June, which is
why a lot of people think something has
to happen before then. Potentially, this
means this White House or the regime
blinks.
>> Amrita, thank you. The status quo is
unsustainable. We've heard it repeatedly
in the last 24 hours. I am H down in
Washington, D.C. If you're just joining
us, that breaking news from Reuters in
the last 20 minutes or so, citing two
senior sources out of Iran on the
supreme leader in Iran who would like to
keep the uranium in Iran, which could be
a sticking point in the negotiations
with the United States. Negotiations
that the president says are in the final
stages. President Trump has said it's
non-negotiable for Iran to have nuclear
weapons. It's been one of his North
Stars through this entire conflict. At
the same time, if they're close to an
agreement, how is this compatible with
it? Right now, the market's getting a
bit jittery at the same time, not taking
it seriously that it actually is a
breakdown in talks. So, it gives you a
sense there is a benumbing of markets
after so much back and forth of headline
risk over the past couple of months.
>> WTI triple digits, $100 a barrel. Brent
crude this morning just around 107. With
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg Brief. Back with us, Yahara
Small. Hey, Yahara. Hey, John. The Trump
administration taking stake in select
quantum computing firms. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the White House is
also awarding $2 billion in grants for
nine companies, including IBM. That's
why those [music] shares are up 6.7%.
The funding is set to come from the
Biden era CHIPS and Sciences [music]
Act.
AI giant Anthropic is on pace for its
first profitable quarter. The company is
seeing a surge in revenue driven by
demand for its AI software. The cloud
maker expects to post [music] nearly $11
billion in revenue for the second
quarter and more than doubling from the
prior 3-month [music]
period.
And Standard Chartered CEO Bill Winters'
remarks on quotes lower value human
capital are sparking questions. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg regulators
in Hong Kong and Singapore have pressed
the bank about the impact of job cuts
[music] in their respective markets.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Pretty controversial comments from early
this week. Johanna, thank you. Up next
on the program, preparing for higher
rates.
Yeah, bond rates going up. Inflation is
a little bit higher than people thought.
Uh so yeah,
but I'm not surprised. The notion that
somehow people said it will never go up
is the wrong notion. They could be much
higher than they are today. Up next on
the program, we'll catch up with Vishal
Khanduja of Morgan Stanley, live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
>> [music]
>> Equities pulling back just moments ago
down by 0.4% on the S&P, negative by 0.5
on the Nasdaq. The why? I'm sure you're
very bored of this. But this is the
[music] why. It's in the energy market,
crude. Just inflating a little bit
higher. Brent crude to 107 [music] up
2%. Likewise on WTI. We got these
headlines from Reuters citing two senior
sources out of Iran that the supreme
leader has issued a directive on uranium
that the uranium must stay in the
country. As [music] we've said
repeatedly, that could be a sticking
point. Will likely be a sticking point
in negotiations with the United [music]
States. So you see that move in crude,
you see this move in the bond market.
2s, 10s, 30s yields start to climb. On a
10 year right now,
>> [music]
>> higher by three basis points getting
back to the 460's. Yeah, the computers
don't like this cuz those are the people
who are left trading on any of these
headlines and ultimately the [music]
inputs still matter. The takeaway for me
is this still is a conflict that does
ultimately matter even though everybody
has tried to move [music] on and even
though people are trying to glean
comfort that there are going to be
talks, there still are quite a few
sticking points.
>> Matters to [music] energy, matters to
the bond market and this event is this
morning preparing for higher rates.
Yeah, bond rates went up, inflation is a
little bit higher than people thought.
So yeah, they but I'm not surprised. The
notion that somehow people said it
they'll never go up is the wrong notion.
And so companies like us prepare for
higher rates, lower rates and you know,
figure those things can happen. They
could be much higher than they are
today. So here's the latest this
morning. Wall Street preparing for a
world with higher interest rates. JP
Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon warning global
bond yields could continue to climb from
levels not seen since the global
financial crisis. Vishal Khanduja of
Morgan Stanley writing US yields are
showing clear signs of force selling by
investors whose portfolios are extending
in duration. Vishal joins us now for
more. Vishal, good morning. Good to see
you, sir.
>> seeing you. Is the selling over?
We felt it a little bit on Friday and
Tuesday, the force selling part of it. I
think the first two big wraps of selling
that went through were actually not
technical or forced. It was just a
massive macro shift going through. You
know, you're going through the war which
is still right front and center, the
reason for all of this. And then I think
the expectations and we were included in
it
was of growth and demand destruction a
little bit coming from higher oil prices
that never manifested. At least you even
if you squinted, you couldn't see it in
the data. And then the earnings took
over from that bit. So the last bit has
come only from real yields, not from
break evens widening. And then Friday's
Friday and and Tuesday price action was
very clear cut convexity selling that
was going through.
>> What do you think the ceiling is now for
interest rates? When does the buying
starts coming? So, we've started to see
buyers come in, but I think there are
those three clear conditions like the
reasons for all of this need to be
solved first. Clear-cut clarity from the
conflict ending. Cannot be another Axios
headline. Cannot be another Reuters
headline, at least for the negative. If
we are going and having a conflict of
full-blown military action over the
weekend, we're going to see significant
flattening and another hike being priced
in very easily by the time we come back
from the long weekend. But we are
starting to see some of that sort of
bond math kicking in. Now, you need
about 250 odd basis points of a sell-off
in the two-year for you to make a
negative return if you buy a two-year
treasury today. So, that bond math math
is kicking in very different than 2022.
When you went in, I think December 21,
two-year was at 78 basis points. So,
even a 100 bit sell-off got you
negative, and that's what 2022 was, but
10 15% negative returns. We're not
seeing that, and that's why you're
starting to see the nibbling coming back
into the bond market. Can you explain
the bond math behind the investment
grade bond market right now because
we're seeing people hide out in
investment grade to avoid the duration
risk that you're seeing in treasuries,
even though duration risk is picking up
in investment grade, and it's tied to
the tech story in terms of all of the
issuance. Does it make sense that that's
a haven right now?
Not to us, actually. Um meaning the
moment it gets into that lower 70 to 80
basis points over treasuries with the
makeup of that index being less tech.
Again, coming into this year, tech was
not even the top three to four sort of
allocation of sectors within the index.
Now, going forward, probably in the next
6 months, I think we were discussing
this in the last couple months here in
this in this show where a lot of these
bonds are getting issued with looser
language in terms of who's going to be
on the hook at the end of it if this
does not work out or if it does not work
out with the same sort of exuberance
that we're going into this, these bonds
are going to have
massive amount of spread duration
because they are for longer term
projects and the negative convexity that
they hold on to. Some of these bonds are
issued in a way where it has a 14-year
callability sorry three-year callability
and a 14-year extension time period. So
the negative convexity one-on-one kicks
in. So we don't think that these are as
easy of structures to get into and the
compensation that we're getting uh is
not commensurate to the risk that we're
taking on. You are seeing spreads start
to widen out just to touch on some of
the tech debt that's been issued. At
what point though do investors really
push back and say, "Hold on guys. If
you're going to make us take on 15-year
debt tied to a data project that hasn't
been built yet, hasn't been proven out
and has depreciating assets that rapidly
have a three to five-year cycle, we're
not going to lend you money so easily."
No. Why aren't we seeing more of that? I
think active managers have started to
push back. So I think what you're seeing
now from issuers, they're trying to
target the high-yield market where the
governance are stronger. Then another
step higher is the securitized market.
Governance are extremely stronger there,
but you cannot issue 40 billion of debt
at 40 year there because the average
life of of governance actually reduces
the amount of risk that the investors
are taking. So I think issuers are
starting to see that. They're starting
to go into different countries,
different jurisdictions, different
currencies and different markets to act
and pay.
>> Spread the love.
A little bit of that, but then the love
comes at a cost and then uh
like it does and then the governance are
much much stronger uh on on that bit. So
yes, we're starting to see few of the
self-correcting mechanisms come in, but
there's a raft of the yield buyer
externally globally sitting uh who's
buying a lot of this IG debt and a lot
of unfortunately is getting bought for
the by the passive uh side of things.
And they don't actually uh look for what
the structures are. If it is IG, it is
going into the benchmark then and
they're buying it. Listening to this
conversation, we start with treasuries,
we finish with credit, but I'm hearing
the same thing, crowding out additional
supply. Is that becoming a problem and
who is it a bigger problem for?
Corporate America or the sovereign for
treasuries? Absolutely for
treasuries for now. Again, if you think
about it, take a huge step back, there
are three big balance sheets as fixed
income investors that we invest in. It's
government, which could be sovereign,
municipalities, etc. It's corporate and
securitized. COVID happens, government
spends about 10 trillion, makes sure
that the corporate and consumers are not
going down. And they balloon up there
fiscal issue.
That's why we are asking for more term
premium. We're baffled 530 still is at
85 basis points
uh on on that bit. But the corporate and
consumer balance sheets,
there are sections that are
deteriorating or peaking in their credit
quality
from a fundamental perspective in the in
the perspective of being able to service
their debt, being able to service their
coupon and pay back par. Now in the last
6 months, now you're getting into areas
where the speculation increases and the
debt metrics are reducing. So almost
like 20 2003 to 2005, debt metrics
peaked there and then you started to see
a little bit of that deterioration.
>> So this is the era of leverage that
we're entering, we're in right now.
Absolutely, feels like it, but the
earnings for now are backing it up. So
the debt metrics are still okay, but
then the moment of whiff of earning
release comes off and that as debt
holders, all we are worried about right
now, you're sitting on so much cash,
you're not finding great projects or
great M&A activity because every
multiple is extremely high in your area,
you're going to buy back extremely high.
So I think that's as a debt holder from
the IG perspective, going back to your
point, uh
not a good feeling. Vishnu, this was a
clinic. We appreciate it. Thank you,
sir. Vishnu Khanduja there of Morgan
Stanley and some more insights on what's
developing. There's some runway here,
but you've got to focus on what's
developing. Essentially, bond investors
need their money back. And at a certain
point, if we're talking 15 years tied to
a data center with not a lot of
covenants, it starts to get a little bit
more worrying. 2003 [music] to 2005
build out, not expecting.
>> not great. No. Coming up next on the
program, David Lebovitz of JP Morgan
Asset Management, Mark Short, the former
chief of staff to the former [music] VP
Pence, BMY CFO Dermot McDonogh, and Sam
Linton-Brown of BNP Paribas from New
York City. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
The rest of 2026, I think the Fed sits
squarely on the sidelines.
>> If you get any cuts at all, it does have
to start with the labor market.
>> Maybe, possibly, there's an opening by
year-end.
>> The majority of the FOMC is going to
keep their heads down.
>> Does inflation actually cause weakness
in the consumer? Then [music] you get
maybe an an opportunity for Warsh to
act.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
[music] Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores, the price action looks
like this. -0.4 on the S&P, down by 0.5
on the Nasdaq, down by 3/4 of 1% for the
small caps with this move in the bond
market. 2s, 10s, 30s, your tire again on
10s [music] by three basis points and
back 3460. Off the back of this in the
energy market, energy higher by 3% on
WTI. Brent crude
>> [music]
>> back to about 107. And these headlines
from Reuters in the last 60 minutes or
so, according to two senior sources
[music]
out of Iran on the supreme leader
issuing a directive on uranium and
suggesting the uranium must stay
>> [music]
>> in Iran. This is the risk case that
talks don't go well, and why should they
go well given some of the mixed rhetoric
that we've been hearing, which is the
reality that markets are waking up to
today. [music] It just highlights how
people keep trying to ignore this story,
and it keeps coming back and rearing its
head. The amount of comfort that people
got uh yesterday uh from a couple of
reports about tankers going through the
Strait of Hormuz and this discussion
around getting better talks
gives you a sense of where what people
want to happen, but not actually what is
happening on the
>> This is why this week was so important
from the earning side of things. From
the earning perspective, we were focused
on the retailers. How is corporate
America doing? How is the American
consumer? This is what we heard from
Target, best sales growth in like 5
years. TJX raising its sales growth
expectations. In the restaurant
business, mentioned Carver because sales
are performing there. Cherry-picking
season, I know, but so far so good on
this front. Walmart just dropped. How's
Walmart shaping up? Uh
less good, [music] I would say. You can
take a look at earnings per share for
the second quarter of 72 to 74 cents.
The estimate was 75 cents.
>> [music]
>> They said that their first quarter
operating income was negatively affected
by 250 basis points [music] on higher
fuel. A lot of the other aspects that
were really coming in in line, revenue
coming in higher than expected. [music]
Uh comp sales at Sam's Club coming in
better than expected. We'll go through
all of the numbers. This though really
does highlight how they are seeing
[music] higher expenses and potentially
are not able to pass it along fully to
all of their customers. You're seeing
this [music] as Kroger's came out and
said they're cutting the prices to
compete more directly with Walmart. And
Walmart has said that they are trying to
invest in price, not raise prices,
>> [music]
>> and taking it on the margins. Are you
seeing that in today's earnings?
>> Am I getting this right? When Walmart
does well, things are bad. And when they
do badly, things are bad. Is that how
this works? Well, of course, John, cuz
you know you're talking to me. But at
the same time, I could say that Walmart
maybe isn't as much of a cyclical story.
Nonetheless, this does show how
>> [music]
>> the biggest companies are getting
pressured, especially when they're
trying to run clean balance sheets and
work on the margins by cutting costs and
squeezing some of their suppliers. So
far this year, the stock has been up,
doing quite nicely alongside Target. The
stock this morning is down by 2%
>> [music]
>> in the premarket. Lots of tech stories
still to come. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with David Lebovitz of JP
Morgan Asset Management as stocks snap a
three-day decline. Mark Short, the
former chief of staff to former VP Pence
on diplomacy with Iran, and the BNY CFO,
Dermot McDonogh, on increasing AI
adoption at one of the best-performing
US banks. We begin this hour with stocks
lower following a muted reaction to
Nvidia earnings. David Lebovitz of
JPMorgan Asset Management still bullish,
writing bonds won't act as an effective
hedge when inflation risk is rising. On
the equity side, we continue to see
opportunity and remain overweight. David
joins us now for more. David, good
morning.
>> Good morning. How hungry are investors
right now for more tech? And how easily
will they digest the massive IPOs we're
getting in the next 12 months? So, what
I would say on the tech front is we
still see structural opportunity there,
but we also recognize how far things
have run over the past couple of months.
And you know, this rebound from the
situation in the Middle East that began
in March has really been driven by
technology at the end of the day. And
so, well, we're we're conscious of that,
and we do want to lighten up a little
bit on that exposure. We're not running
away from the US, which is obviously a
tech-heavy market. We think that the the
fundamentals are there. The earnings are
there, even if we're missing
expectations, you know, the numbers
themselves are still pretty good. You
asked the question about the IPOs. We
have supply coming. And oftentimes when
supply increases, if demand doesn't
increase at the same pace, you can see
an adjustment in price. Whether or not
that has a market level impact, I think
it's probably to be seen. But the
question is, tech has had such a strong
run over the past 15 years. Are we
reaching the point where you're seeing
those animal spirits rear their ugly
heads, where you're seeing more
speculation in the market? I'm less
concerned with how they get taken down.
I'm more concerned with what this means
for risk-taking over the next 12 months.
>> stand the story of supply as a force in
financial markets and think about it
beyond just equity. We're seeing it in
fixed income on both the sovereign side
and now on credit from the hyperscalers.
We just had that conversation. Supply is
everywhere right now. These demands for
capital are picking up. Do we have the
demand on on other side to meet it?
So, the the question about and and I
think the hyperscalers specifically are
the issue that's on the market's mind.
You know, to us this is really more of a
corporate financing decision more than
anything else. You know, day one of
business school, what they teach you is
that the capital structure doesn't
matter. It's how you use your capital
structure that will make or break the
project. And so, what I think you're
seeing from the hyperscaler community is
a recognition that they can't just allow
all of their cash flow to get eaten up
by these projects. They're going to the
debt markets where again, demand has
been robust. And I think more than
anything, it's really this this all-in
yield story. I mean, what's what's
struck me over the past couple of weeks
is how orderly spreads have been against
the backdrop where yields have have
really gapped higher, particularly as of
late. And I think what that reflects is,
if you can get paid 5% on IG paper, if
you can get paid 7 7 and a quarter on
high yield, investors are going to take
that because the memories of the
post-GFC environment where rates were
pegged at zero are still fresh. And so,
yields available, and people will take
it. We've been talking about who gets
crowded out first, and John has pointed
to this in a significant manner. Is it
going to be some of this corporate
issuance on the stock and on the bond
side, or is it going to be governments?
A previous guest was saying it was going
to be governments in terms of their
issuance. Do you agree with that? I
wouldn't disagree with that. I mean, in
our client conversations, the thing
that's once again been coming up, and it
feels like this is somewhat cyclical,
but people are increasingly concerned
with what's happening with the deficit,
what's happening with the debt. This
isn't just a US conversation. It's
really a global conversation. And I
actually had a client the other day say
to me, "Well, you know, is some of this
corporate debt, particularly tied to IG
tech companies, is that actually a safer
bet than what some of the stuff that we
can find in the sovereign market?" And
so, you know, what's interesting about
the environment we're in today is you're
you're seeing that tension begin to
emerge. I don't want to go as far as to
say that the bond vigilantes are back,
but I think now that you're seeing the
inflation data begin to pick up, you
know that the administration wants to
prime the economy in advance of the
midterms. That's what I think the bond
market is saying, and that's why I think
people are now looking to high-quality
corporates as a potential substitute if
the goal is diversification. At this
point, we've been talking a lot about
why haven't higher yields, higher
benchmark rates, crimped the equity
appetite? And Max Kuttner used to talk
about the danger zone of 4.5% on the
10-year, came out this morning with a
note saying the danger zone hasn't
worked because earnings have been so
strong, rate volatility hasn't been that
great. It's no longer the danger zone.
Is there a new danger zone that is a
higher threshold? So, I I think that 5%
is still very much a line in the sand on
the 10-year. I think that if you saw
yields get to that point, you would
definitely see equities get some
indigestion. I do give a lot of credence
though to the idea that the earning
story has helped to offset some of this
pressure stemming from higher rates. I
also think that markets are still
viewing the driver of higher rates here
as being temporary, right? What really
set this whole thing off was the CPI but
more so the PPI report the other week.
The market is saying the left tail risk
from the situation in the Middle East
has collapsed. The administration wants
to do a deal, they're going to get the
oil flowing, and everything is going to
be okay.
That sounds great, but it needs to begin
to happen. And you know, it's not lost
on me that gas prices are much higher
than they were a year ago. Food prices
are much higher than they were a year
ago. The lower leg of the K, to your
point about Walmart, the lower leg of
the K is still struggling here. And so,
if we can't make progress, we have time
as long as asset prices are elevated.
But if asset prices begin to correct,
then the upper leg of the K comes under
pressure. That's where I think you have
a real problem.
>> to work out where the risk is in
financial markets. I'm just listening to
the way that you're talking about
financial markets. And I've heard this a
few times now. The all-in yield is good,
right? Spreads are tight. Let's run with
that. All-in yield's great, spreads are
tight. A growing proportion of the
all-in yield is the supposed risk-free
rate.
So, ideally, I would have thought you'd
say, "Look at that. Okay, I want to buy
the underlying. I want to buy
Treasuries. I want to buy the
risk-free." But you're saying that's
where the risk is. And I've heard that a
few times. Whenever when anyone comes on
on the fixed income side of things,
they'll say, "Yeah, spreads are tight,
but I like the all-in yield." And I'm
sitting here thinking, "Well, if a
growing proportion of the all-in yield
is the Treasury and it's meant to be
risk-free, why wouldn't I just buy the
treasury? Why take the corporate risk?
Because I think that at the end of the
day, there's more certainty around the
corporate outlook than perhaps there is
around the government outlook. And
that's the headline. To me, that's why I
come in every morning, and the first
thing I look at is move. Right, what is
interest rate volatility doing? And the
gap up we've seen in rate volatility, I
do think it's tied not only to the
inflation story, but some of the
rhetoric coming out of Washington. You
have that offset to your point about the
equity market from solid fundamentals.
That supports corporate paper, but I
think you're going to get bounced around
sitting in risk-free paper going People
are more concerned about the sovereign
than they are the corporate. That's the
headline. Absolutely. Remember when
Microsoft actually traded inside of
government debt briefly for a second? Do
we start to see that kind of dynamic? If
that's the case, though,
we always say the crisis always happens
in debt perceived as safe. If treasuries
are no longer safe, it's not exactly not
going to affect all of these other
products that potentially have some sort
of tie to it. So, even if they are
safer,
it highlights the risk inherent markets
right now. I think it's a I think it's a
visibility issue more than anything.
There was a great report out of one of
the the regional Fed banks the other day
about how the run rate of AI spending
has increased across across the
corporate sector. I mean, it's basically
up 50% relative to last year. And so, if
you're sitting there as an investor
saying, "Okay, well, the money's getting
spent. One man's cap ex is another man's
revenue. This seems like it still has
legs." Or you're saying, "I'm not really
sure what's going to come out of
Washington or Brussels next." It's a
very different uh very different state.
>> we need to see corrective action from
the Treasury? Where does it come from to
put a lid on what's developing in this
bond market? So, I I think a couple of
things. One, they can try they can try
to talk it back down. But one of our
views more structurally over the next 10
to 15 years is that term premia are
going to be higher, rate volatility is
going to be higher because we're in this
environment of fiscal activism and
economic nationalism. That's just going
to mean that you have more volatility in
in government bond markets. They can try
to talk it down, but what they really
need to do is they need to allow the
inflation that we're now seeing to run
its course, and they need to give the
market a better sense of what may be
coming from a spending perspective. I
think there are still a lot of questions
around midterms in the fall. What is the
administration going to do to try to
prime the pump in advance of that? There
just isn't great clarity, and so that's
again what I think is really impacting
the rates market today is just that that
uncertainty there, which you're not
necessarily getting on the corporate
side given that fundamental setup.
>> Are Treasuries good hedge against the AI
hopes and dreams not coming to fruition?
So, I think that they are because our
view is that Treasuries are not an
effective hedge when inflation is the
problem, but Treasuries in theory, and
we've seen it over the past couple of
years, should be a good hedge when
growth is the problem. We know the story
here about, you know, consumer 70% of
the economy, but the cherry on top has
been the AI CapEx. If the AI CapEx story
begins to falter, you have a weaker
consumer, people markets are going to
get spooked about the outlook for
growth. I do think the Treasuries act as
a hedge in that environment.
>> David, this is fun. Good to see you.
Thank you, buddy. David there with JP
Morgan Asset Management in the bond
market right now. Yields tied by about
three basis points on twos, twos to
about 4.1%. 10s back around 460. With an
update on stories worldwide this
morning, with your Bloomberg brief,
Ye-Hsiang Hara has more. Hi, Ye-Hsiang
Hara. Hi, John.
Iran's supreme leader ordering that the
country's near weapons-grade uranium
should not be sent abroad. Reuters
reporting that Iran's top officials
believe sending the material outside
would leave the country more vulnerable
to future attacks.
Meanwhile, we are seeing Walmart shares
sliding nearly 2% in the premarket.
[music]
The company posting steady sales gains,
but flagging higher fuel costs. CFO John
David Rainey telling us here at
Bloomberg the headline consumer
>> [music]
>> is still reasonably healthy. The
low-income consumer is more
budget-conscious.
And Paramount's takeover of Warner
Brothers Discovery is gaining steam.
Bankers are preparing to sell $49
billion of debt to back the deal with
the financing coming from Apollo, Bank
of America, and Citigroup. The deal will
consist of a combination of
investment-grade and junk debt. That's
[music] your Bloomberg brief, John. Hey,
Yohuru. Thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, renewing
pressure on Iran.
If we don't get the right answers, it
goes very quickly. We would have to be a
complete 100% good answers. I'm not
doing any relief until they sign an
agreement. Up next, we catch up with the
former chief of staff to the former VP,
[music] Mike Pence. Mark Short joins us
in just a moment, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
There's a few phrases in retail America
that drive me absolutely insane. One is
consumers are choiceful.
And there's another one, investing in
price.
It's when things are difficult and they
try to make it sound [music] good.
Walmart down by about 2%. Are they
investing in price this morning? Yeah,
they are investing in price, absolutely,
John. This is what has definitely
weighed on their margins because
investing in price can also be
>> [music]
>> absorbing costs, which is essentially
what they did. Walmart coming out and
saying that actually consumer demand was
pretty good. They actually did see a
strength there at the lower side. They
did see ongoing [music]
choicefulness in terms of lots of
decisions. At the same time, they said
that it really was the fuel costs. The
company absorbed, quote, virtually the
entirety of the increases in fuel costs
during the period because the company is
prioritizing keeping prices low. The
number of discounts rose 20% from a year
earlier. So, they're trying to [music]
gain market share by competing on price.
Thought it was very interesting that
Kroger CEO came out this morning and
told [music] Bloomberg that they're
planning the biggest price cuts in 2
years to take out Walmart. So, it gives
you a sense of this price war that's
starting to try to capture customers and
capture market
>> more serious note, they're saying 2022,
>> [music]
>> consumer price tolerance then, consumer
price tolerance now, and retailers are
acting accordingly.
>> Yeah, they are ultimately trying to
capture a bigger share. Although, it
does seem like in certain categories,
[music] price increases can go to the
moon like in chips and other areas of
that nature. But, for consumers, they're
clearly isn't the same kind of robust
appetite to keep buying at any cost.
Energy prices are higher, costs are
higher, that story still shaping this
equity market. Equity futures negative
by a few tenths of 1% [music] on the S&P
500, on the Nasdaq we're down by 0.4. In
the bond market, yields turning a little
bit higher, up by three basis points on
twos, on tens up by two. This move in
[music] crude, Brent back to 107 off the
back of these headlines from Reuters
earlier on this morning citing two
>> [music]
>> Iranian officials, two sources in the
country, that the supreme leader wants
to keep the uranium in Iran.
>> [music]
>> And the Savannah this morning renewing
pressure on that country.
If we don't get the right answers, it
goes very quickly. It would have to be a
complete 100% good answers. And if we
do,
we save a lot of
time, energy, and lives, most
importantly. It could go very quickly.
Or a few days. It could be It could be a
few days. I'm not doing any relief until
they sign an agreement. Here's the
latest this morning then, Reuters
reporting Iran's supreme leader pushing
for its uranium to stay in the country.
Tehran reportedly preparing a response
to the latest peace proposal from the
US. Anne Marie joins us now from
Washington for more. Hi, Anne Marie.
Hey, Jonathan. Well, that directive from
Iran that's being reported from the
supreme leader on Reuters is really
going to be a red line potentially in
these negotiations because
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had
made it very clear for Israel for the
war to end that highly enriched uranium
needs to be taken out of Iran.
Potentially, this could put the
president in a very difficult position.
And for a little bit more insight on how
potentially we could see this White
House react, we are now joined by
Trump's in the first term director of
legislative affairs, and of course, he
was the former chief of staff to Vice
President Mike Pence, and that is Mark
Short. Thank you so much for joining us.
>> Thanks for having me. So, we have this
new reporting out of Reuters as the
president said yesterday, right now,
they're right on the borderline between
getting a deal and resuming a war. What
do you think he does with this basically
escalation from Iran? Well, look, I
don't think there's any president who's
been a better [clears throat] partner
and more loyal to Israel than Donald
Trump uh throughout his first term and
his second term. But, we are reaching an
important point here because Iran is an
existential threat for Israel, clearly,
and they're not going to want to see a
deal at this point. Whereas, the
president is facing a lot of domestic
pressure with energy prices continuing
to spike, uh his numbers continuing to
deteriorate, uh with midterm elections
coming soon. And so, there's this is
obviously going to be a significant
pressure point for him. Yeah, his
polling is going down as you see
gasoline prices going up. We're north of
$4.50
today. I just spoke last hour to Amrita
Sen of Energy Aspects, and she's on the
road, and she says inventories are
halfway drawn down now, and people are
looking at June. Yeah. If we see north
of $5 a gallon, does the president
blink?
Like, I think it's not just north of $5
a gallon, it's jet fuel prices, jet fuel
a lot of airlines continue to cancel
flights, is diesel fuel continuing to go
up. Uh I think there's some things the
president's done like leaving the uh
waving the Jones Act that have kept some
of this at bay. Uh but, I I think that
the question's going to be, does he want
a deal? The president loves to have a
deal, but I think if he gets a deal,
Amrita, there's going to be a lot of
questions like, is this not just Obama
2.0? And when a lot of Republicans
criticized sending pallets of cash to
Iran, if we're basically saying, well,
you know, as some have said, that we got
20 years now, is is that really going to
be that significantly different? And
Iran has done this. This is what they've
done for 47 years. It's continue to walk
along a lot of presidents to say, "Hey,
we'll we'll, you know, negotiate this
later." And and they've continued to be
the same menace for 47 years.
>> Yeah, they continue to drag their feet
and they have done with multiple
presidents. But, you have been in the
room with President Trump. You know his
instincts. If the domestic pressures get
too much for him,
does he then give a lot of concessions
away?
I worry that he does. I think that right
now the president again Hard to say
there hasn't been somebody who has stood
with Israel more than this president and
he has so far. But, Amna, I do you think
he's on the
>> on Iran. First term maximum pressure,
second term obviously their strike.
>> Taking out Soleimani, but for a lot of a
lot of things the president has done.
But, I do think that he likes to be the
one who ends up making a deal and so
there's a lot of pressure on for him to
obviously get out of this and to lower
energy prices. But, again, for for our
partner Israel, they have this has been
an existential threat. They view, "This
is our opportunity. Is- Iran is
weakened. Now is our opportunity to do
this." And they know that if basically
if we back out, then China and Russia
are going to continue to rebuild the
military supplies in Iran and it will
become like once again a threat to
Israel and to the West.
>> the midterm elections. We just had a
bunch of primaries, but also recently
the president said he's not thinking
about Americans' financial conditions
when he's talking about Iran. Now, I
know some people would say that was
taken out of context, but
how difficult is that going to be for
Republicans when they try to deliver a
message before November? The midterms
are always going to be difficult in the
in the tournament of a president,
particularly when there's one one party
in power. So, Republicans have obviously
the House, the Senate and the White
House. And American voters have always
wanted to have divided government. And
so, you would anticipate already a
significant year for Democrats. I think
you add on to that what you've seen with
the economy and affordability crisis,
energy prices spiking. But, also now the
president has shown his muscle in
winning primaries.
But, if you're basically showing that
you're want people who are more loyal to
you, how does that play to general
election voters? I think that they may
be playing out to their strength in the
primary season, Emery, but creating an
even bigger hurdle for Republicans come
November. What does this mean for also
the current Republicans in Congress? A
lot of Republicans were very
disappointed of the president yesterday
going for Ken Paxton in Texas. Well,
that's obviously on the heels of taking
out Republicans [clears throat] in
Indiana, taking out Thomas Massie in
Kentucky, taking out
Bill Cassidy in Louisiana. And I think
that you're going to continue to see, I
think, less and less done in Washington.
It's already hard to get something done
in the midterm election cycle, Emery,
but I think even more so now because
you're going to see those Republicans
begin to break further and further from
the president. So, I would think there'd
be very little done legislatively. It
seems that this housing bill that
it seems to me Republicans there's only
a handful of Republicans actually still
believe in free markets because it seems
like the vast majority of them are
partnering with the the the populist
left in deciding who can buy houses and
who can't.
>> but if they're willing to break with
this president, what does that look
like? It looks like things stalling. It
looks like basically nothing else
happening between now and end of
November. It It means that that things
like the president's desire for a
ballroom funding doesn't happen. It
potentially means that
more funding for the military doesn't
happen. It potentially means
>> we had an individual yesterday saying
we're going to be running out of the
military budget for the war in Iran.
President's asking for 1.5 trillion now.
Does he get that before November? I
think it everything gets harder now.
Everything does. And so, I would be
basically wagering against anything else
happening of consequence between now and
November. Does that mean that we see a
president that's going to be more
assertive on Congress and try to do
things through executive order? Well, I
think that's already been the case,
right? I mean,
this this administration clearly
believes they don't need Congress for
much, and they think that they can do it
just from the executive branch. That's
going to become a bigger and bigger
challenge after the midterms because
there'll be a bigger and bigger clash
with the legislative branch at that
point. Mark Short, thank you so much for
your time this morning. Thanks for
coming in. Uh that was Mark Short,
Jonathan. Of course, Trump won. He was
director of legislative affairs and also
the Vice President Mike Pence's chief of
staff. Interesting the beginning of our
conversation, when it comes to the war
with Iran, you see these reports like
Reuters with the supreme leader having
this directive about enriched uranium.
Potentially this can make it much harder
at the negotiating table with gas prices
going up. Mark Short is worried that
this president blanks at the table. Anne
Marie, appreciate the update. Thank you.
Anne Marie in the nation's capital. We
all understand the seriousness of what's
taking place in the Middle East, but I
have to tell you to take a step back.
The degree of fatigue in financial
markets for investors tracking this
story is off the chart. Just totally off
the chart. I You can feel it. It Look, I
I'll be honest, I have fatigue with it
because there's no way to analyze it.
There's no way to get an edge on it.
There's no way to know Tell me when it's
over. Tell me when it's escalating. Tell
me what I can price in. Tell me when I
have to care if it's a crisis. Throw in
some Ebola. I can't pay attention to
that because I've dealt with enough of
that stuff. It's like But it's, you
know, it's just There is a crisis
fatigue right now in markets, especially
given the overlay of optimism and
enthusiasm and change going on from AI.
Doesn't mean it's not an important
story. It's an incredibly important
story. It's just hard to analyze, so
people are just trying to put it in the
back of their
>> down inventories aggressively,
aggressively. That's cushioned the story
so far, but ultimately it's
unsustainable, which is why the status
quo can't continue for much longer.
Maybe that's the good news. Maybe you
get a [music] breakthrough. I don't
know.
>> If it's not possible or if it's going to
be so bad, it's not going to happen,
right? That's what we've heard. Up next,
the BNY CFO, Dermot McDonogh. That's
next. This is Bloomberg.
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Equity futures so far this
Thursday morning. Good morning to you.
Negative by about 0.3%
[music] on the S&P 500. You see the
NASDAQ down by 0.4. You notice in the
bond market as well, Treasury's a little
bit softer, yield a bit higher. Two's,
10's, 30's, yields up by about a basis
point now on 10. Still around 460. The
two-year just north of 4% up another
three basis points at the front end of
the curve. A lot of these moves born out
of the energy [music] market this
morning. And these moves include Brent
and WTI. Brent crude up by 1.7% to
[music] around 107. And it's the story
you're all sick and tired of hearing
about, but it's the story driving
financial markets this morning. It came
from Reuters. A couple of headlines
suggesting that the supreme leader in
Iran would like to keep the uranium in
the country, which makes it difficult to
get to a deal with [music] the United
States.
>> Yeah, this market doesn't want to have
to focus on the internals of coming to a
deal because it looks pretty messy and
frankly unsustainable to have any kind
of agreement given the position of both
sides. It's
interesting to note the distance between
how much people have moved on and the
fact that they can't really move on
because this story is fundamental to the
underpinnings of the economy. I mean,
just looking at Walmart's earnings gives
you a sense of just [music] how much
cost is being absorbed by the fuel costs
going up that hasn't been passed along
yet, but is unsustainable if it
continues.
>> Is that good news for the Federal
Reserve that we're not seeing that pass
through? This is different. The more
obvious story might be a growth one
further down the line because you can
see the nervousness right now about the
inflation component of all of this.
We've priced out the easing of the Fed.
We've priced in tightening of the ECB
[music] at the Bank of England. This
Federal Reserve reading through those
minutes in the last 24 hours, they seem
very, very nervous about the next
several months.
>> Yeah, probably because inflation just
there is no sign that it's going to come
lower. In fact, it's actually
accelerating higher and you haven't had
2% inflation for more than five years.
They now see a longer path to get down
to 2%. You ask, does it make it more
comfortable [music] that you aren't
seeing any pass-through at the likes of
Walmart? No, the answer is absolutely
not because you're seeing the
pass-through for airline tickets. And
frankly, there are other inflationary
components as well tied to the AI story.
So you can strip out everything that you
want, but that target isn't getting back
to that 2% [music]
at least not in the near future.
>> bonds in that tech space price
insensitive as we've seen big time
[music] in the last 12 months or so.
More data later this morning, 8:30
Eastern time, jobless claims. That's
just around the corner as we count you
down to the opening bell, 2 hours away.
Let's get you some single names and
morning movers. Yahaira has more. Hey,
Yahaira. Hi, John. Staying on Walmart,
we are seeing those shares falling 2%
even after it posted another solid
quarter of sales growth, but as you
said, the company warning that rising uh
fuel costs [music] are starting to hit
its shoppers and its own profits.
Executives saying that lower income
consumers are becoming even more budget
conscious while the company itself is
absorbing much of the fuel hit to try to
keep its prices [music] low. Uh turning
to shares of IBM and other quantum
computing stocks, they are surging in
the pre-market on this report by the
Wall Street Journal that the Trump
administration is preparing uh roughly
$2 billion in grants [music]
for the sector with IBM get set to uh
receive the biggest award at $1 billion.
And we end on shares of Deere, they are
falling in the pre-market. It just
reported results, shares are down 3.4%
even after it posted better than
expected [music] earnings, but looking
under the hood, results show that
farmers are still holding back on
purchasing [music] those bigger, pricier
that bigger, pricier equipment, and
Deere says the reason results have held
up is because of [music] the AI boom.
John. Yahaira, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yahaira later this
hour. On our radar this morning, Walmart
moving lower in the pre-market. The
retailer posting steady sales gains but
flagging higher fuel costs. The CFO,
John David Rainey, saying, quote, "The
headline consumer is still healthy. The
low-income consumer is more budget
conscious." Elsewhere, Anthropic on
track for its most profitable first
quarter. Strong demand for its AI
software driving a surge in revenue. The
numbers adding fuel to face to the race
with OpenAI to go public. And finally,
JP Morgan boss Jamie Dimon arguing the
AI transition can occur without sweeping
layoffs.
I think we'll be hiring more AI people
and probably less
bankers in certain categories and it'll
make them more productive. Your job will
be the same. You'll just be so much
smarter how you execute that job. But we
will retrain and redeploy our people.
Dimon's comments underscoring a broader
industry shift towards automation
throughout the financial workforce. And
I think setting him apart with some of
the comments we had earlier this week
from a certain Standard Chartered. Yeah,
and he called those comments indelicate
and when you talk about lower value
human capital. Nonetheless, an
increasing number of CEOs are saying
whether you like it or not change is
coming. Whether you like it or not our
economy is changing and we have to
adjust and adapt or else we will become
obsolete. What I learned when I talked
to Lori Beer yesterday, who is the Chief
Information Officer at JP Morgan, was
this is a highly uncertain time. There
isn't a clear destination and it is
incredibly difficult to have people sit
with that uncertainty. At the same time,
people who thrive are the ones who can
deal with that uncertainty and keep
shifting. How do you get this message
out though when you have a lot of mixed
messaging and when you have some of the
executives coming out with indelicate
phrasing?
>> I'm a smart guy. Didn't Bill used to
work with Jamie? I think they did. I
will have to A while back, yeah. I think
I think they did. So I imagine he was
smiling too when he saw those comments,
you know.
Somebody who tends to put foot in mouth.
Yeah, exactly. But he's done that
before. Yeah, he's not alone.
This week we've seen a lot of that.
Let's turn the page and stay on the
financials. America's oldest bank and
the first listing on the New York Stock
Exchange getting a little bit of a
revamp today. The Bank of New York is
set to begin trading under its new
ticker BNY. Joining us now is BNY CFO
Dermot McDonogh. Dermot, good to see
you, sir. Welcome to the program.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> You guys have had a fantastic run,
whether it's under BNY or BK, and I
don't think the story is talked about
enough. Alongside Robin, the best
performing large bank in this country
over his tenure. Now,
at the very beginning of life at BNY,
you were the architects of the Treasury
market, one of the early movers in this
whole financial space. How different is
this institution now compared to to back
then?
So, look,
first of all, thanks for having me.
America's oldest bank, 1784,
storied
institution founded by Alexander
Hamilton, who became the first Treasury
Secretary, first loan to the US
government. And so, we're very proud of
our place in the financial market
ecosystem, and that's evolved over the
last 242 years.
When tickers first became a thing in
1969, BNY wasn't available, so we went
with BK for America's oldest bank. And
now we have the opportunity to sync up
how we present ourselves to clients and
shareholders with the ticker, so it's a
great day for us. Hamilton was a
incredibly intelligent man. I have my
doubts as to whether he would have
imagined the position that we're all in
right now, staring down the technology
that is just on the horizon. How
different are things going to be for
your institution and when you think
about AI, I imagine you're not you're
not thinking in the terms of low value
human capital. Can you tell us in the
way you are thinking about the incoming
technology? We have a very, very
different strategy on AI.
Jonathan, I think you've been down to
our headquarters. You'll have seen the
ledgers from that time. You'll have seen
our C-talk center, which is quite a
modern where we manage the markets. 20%
of the world's best of all assets
flowing through our pipes every day. So,
you know, you've talked earlier about a
lot of uncertainty in the world. The
only thing that's constant in today's
world is uncertainty.
And so, we've embraced at BNY AI as a
superpower. It's part of our strategy.
It's part of our transformation, and I
think we've done a
a pretty good job at demystifying AI for
our people. We say inside the walls of
BNY, AI is for everyone, for everywhere,
for everything. And we've two strands to
it, individual AI and enterprise AI,
where we focus on how can you use AI as
an individual to become more productive
and to upskill yourself. And then as a
firm, how do we use AI as a strategic
superpower to make clients have better
services, better goods, how do we serve,
how do we grow, more importantly, how do
we create capacity within the firm to
grow? That's the word that interests me,
capacity. So when we talk about AI and
when I hear the C-suite discuss it,
they'll talk a lot about efficiency.
We'll have a conversation about job
losses. Maybe we'll have spent some time
on an improved product offering for
customers. We'll spend a bit of time on
that. Capacity is the interesting
component of this.
Does it create capacity and allow you to
do things that maybe you might not have
been able to do several years ago? And
when you think about the spaces that it
opens up for, say, BNY, what does it
mean for you?
Uh I would say in a word, AI for us
means growth and opportunity. And things
that we thought we couldn't do before
we're now able to do and do at a faster
pace. If you kind of go back to what I
said in terms of 20% of the world's
investable assets flowing through our
pipes,
uh
we settle 95% of the US Treasury market
every day.
That gives us a lot of data and we'll be
able to with AI to unlock that data,
provide greater insights and greater
information, be able to develop greater
data products for our clients. In the
whole world of digital assets as well, I
think we can power that with AI. So
actually AI for us is we are quite
optimistic in terms of our ability to
grow and transform as you've seen in our
results over the last couple of years.
>> What's the main note of growth given the
fact that people used to think of BNY as
being uh sort of where money markets
funds go and get parked and it's the
collateral bastion. You talk about 20%
of the world's assets.
How do you grow profitability given the
low margin aspect to those transactions?
So, um I think in many ways BNY is a
unique institution.
We have We have several businesses and
we have strong competition in each of
those business, but when you add them
together as a combined, we're pretty
unique in what we can offer our clients
as a collective. So, what we've done
over the last couple of years to a lot
to a good success is our ability to sell
multi-line of business to single uh
clients.
And unlock the firm and de-silo the firm
and deliver a more holistic brand to our
clients. And you've seen that in record
sales revenue in Q1 of this year, record
revenues this year, and a tripling of
the stock price over the last 3 years.
So, clients are noticing the
transformation, our shareholders are
noticing the transformation, and more
importantly our employees are feel
empowered and energized by what we're
doing at the institution. The total
number of employees at BNY peaked out in
uh close to 53,000, and they've fallen
considerably since then. It's been a
pretty contractionary uh head count
story even amidst some of the growth in
profitability. Do you expect it to
continue shrinking because of some of
the capabilities and efficiencies that
you're
uh that you're putting out there? So, I
think uh the the rationalization over
the last couple of years, we've largely
dealt with through attrition in terms of
each firm has a steady amount of
attrition each year. So, it's not been
large-scale workforce layoffs. It's like
we've kind of figured out how to manage
the workforce in a more strategic way.
And it's been kind of taking back
control of our expense spend and
reducing duplicacy in the firm uh
implementing our platform's operating
model so we can deliver more holistic uh
set of products to our clients. And
that's taken excess capacity out of the
firm in a more strategic way, which I
think our employees are very pleased to
see.
>> Well, we've seen the performance
strongest sales quarter, I think in the
firm's history, more recently. Can we
talk big picture about financial markets
and and more broadly capitalism? We
heard over the weekend people get booed
whenever they mentioned AI.
I think that a lot of these institutions
have totally lost control of the
narrative right now. And I mentioned
Standard Chartered, and I'm sorry to
keep beating up on that bank, but the
language that was used to describe this
technology and the people that worked at
the institution was deeply derogatory
for a lot of people that work in capital
markets right now. They themselves might
be losing faith in the future of this
industry. How do we make sure that
people stay engaged with capital
markets? I know that you're engaged also
with the Trump accounts as well. Is that
a feature in this effort to keep this
country engaged in capital markets at a
time of deep skepticism over the future
of capitalism and of technology?
So, look, we're very, very privileged as
an institution to partner with the
administration on Trump accounts. We
believe it's a very important public
policy initiative. It's giving the kids
of today a future and the stake of
America tomorrow.
And, you know, it's a real privilege.
We're a G-SIB. We're a key part of the
financial market ecosystem. We serve the
government every single day, and we're
very proud to be one of the first
institutions to match the Trump
administration's initiative by doing it
for our own employees. So,
financial literacy, financial education,
giving people a stake in the economy of
tomorrow is really important, and we're
very proud to play our part in it.
>> What other things can we do?
We're very focused as well on home
ownership.
We launched an initiative this year
where everybody who earns less than
$100,000 a year, who wants to get their
step on the property ladder, we give
them assistance to do that.
We do a lot of digital education about
how to save and how to, you know, build
for the future. And I think we're also
very focused on wellness and health
benefits to make sure we're a leader in
that so when people join BNY, they're
not only join for a career, they join to
be part of a family. I think we often
have doubts about the consumer sentiment
numbers we see Lisa on a monthly basis
and we say that can't be real. People
can't be this downbeat about this
economy compared to say GFC and the
pandemic, but maybe it is real. Maybe
they just look at the future right now,
the technology, the language that's used
about the labor market and have their
doubts about where they fit in. And what
capitalism ultimately is going to mean
to them in the next several years.
>> A lot of people do say that the level of
uncertainty for the future has led to a
lot of discomfort. Last night at the
dinner table, I will say that my
14-year-old said, "I'm worried about
having a job. I mean, I don't know if I
can get one in this world." I mean,
these these are actually things that
they're talking about at the
>> heard about Casa Lisa at the dinner
table? As somebody who grew up in
Ireland, I was always worried about
getting my first job. It came from an
economy that had a lot of unemployment.
Everybody had to emigrate.
Um and I emigrated and here I find
myself in New York. So, I think if
you're a glass half full person, there's
still a lot of opportunity out there for
those who want it. We're lucky to have
you here in New York, sir. Thanks for
being here. We appreciate it. It's a
pleasure. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Dermot McDonagh there, the
BNY CFO. If you're just joining us,
welcome to the program. Equity futures a
little bit lighter this morning. We're
softer. We're down across the board on
the S&P by about a third of 1%. With an
update on stories worldwide, let's get
your Bloomberg brief. Yahaira has more.
Hi Yahaira. Hi Joe, we are seeing Kroger
shares falling nearly 5% in the [music]
pre-market after Walmart's cautious
results, but in an interview before
that, the supermarket chain's new CEO
told us here at Bloomberg he's looking
at major price cuts
>> [music]
>> to win back market share. Kroger aiming
to protect margins by trimming expenses
by directly importing its merchandise.
[music]
Meanwhile, taking a look at Nvidia
shares, they are falling just slightly
in the pre-market. The tech giant
reporting another blockbuster quarter
with record sales and income. The
results topping the average analyst
estimate, but some are questioning the
sustainability [music]
of its growth, especially amid higher
competition.
And SpaceX filed for what stands to be
the largest IPO in history with a $75
billion funding target.
>> [music]
>> The company revealing billions in losses
along with a plan to give Elon Musk near
total control over the company and
[music] up to a billion shares. The
company's goals include a human
settlement on Mars and data centers in
space. That's a Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohai, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program a fresh
warning from Wall Street.
Yeah, bond rates going up. Inflation is
a little bit higher than people thought.
Uh so, yeah, you know, but I'm not
surprised. The notion that somehow
people said it they'll never go up is
the wrong notion. They could be much
higher than they are today. Up next
we'll catch up with Sam Lynton-Brown of
BNP Paribas from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Equity futures this morning down by 1/4
of 1% on the S&P 500 upset just a little
bit by this move in the bond market. The
front end of the curve twos this morning
[music] yields higher by four basis
points approaching 4.1% all over again
with energy elevated up 2% on WTI on
Brent back to [music] about 107. Some
disruption in the negotiations
potentially between Iran and the United
States as the supreme leader says the
Iranian must stay
in Iraq. [music] Under Savannah's this
morning a fresh warning from Wall
Street.
Yeah, bond rates going up. Inflation is
a little bit higher than people thought.
Uh so, yeah, you know, but I'm not
surprised. The notion that somehow
people said it they'll never go up is
the wrong notion. And so, companies like
us prepare for higher rates, lower
rates, and you know, figure those things
can happen. They could be much higher
than they are today. So, here's the
latest this morning. Global bond yields
hovering at levels not seen since the
great financial crisis. The JP Morgan
CEO, Jamie Dimon, warning investors that
interest rates could continue to climb.
Sam Lynton-Brown of BNP Paribas writing
the market sees resilient growth despite
higher energy prices and higher rates.
Our view is essentially that the
bifurcation can continue in the near
term. Sam joins us now for more. Sam,
good morning. Good morning. Let's extend
some of those issues and welcome to New
York. Let's talk about the prospect for
interest rate hikes as well. As a team
over at BNP, I think the research team
doing a decent job recently of really
highlighting the risk of that actually
materializing this year. Can you walk us
through just how high or how low the bar
for hikes actually is? Yeah, look, our
our view at BNP Paribas has been that
the Fed wouldn't be cutting rates this
year. That's been our view since
December of 2025. And we're quite
open-minded to the idea that it's
possible the Fed could actually be
hiking rates. I think the key is we'd
need to see even more strength in the
labor market. So, an unemployment rate
beneath 4% accompanied with some type of
de-anchoring in long-term inflation
expectations across the panel of what
the Fed look at, that could be
consistent with a Fed that really
becomes open-minded to rate hikes.
They're the conditions. In the
beginning, do you have to change the
communication, drop the easing bias?
We've been talking about the Federal
Reserve minutes that came out yesterday.
Lisa, like me, like everyone, surprised
the easing bias is still there given the
minutes we just read.
You do need to see that sequencing of
communication change. So, you'd need to
see the easing bias dropped. You'd need
to see a tightening bias included. And
then you may be in a situation in which
the Fed would would be more sort of
openly signaling that the rate hikes
could be coming. Did the minutes
indicate that some of the Fed members
might be prodded to look through
AI-related inflation to some degree?
I think as it relates to AI, the
challenge for the Fed is what it's going
to mean for inflation in the near term.
Because in the near term, the sentiment
effect is clearly very positive. It's
driving stocks higher. That's having a
positive effect on consumption through
the wealth effect. At the same time,
you've got a huge amount of capex, which
is also supporting economic growth. So,
there's clearly a demand impact near
term. The supply impact is there to some
extent as well, but it may only come
later. So, the view that we've actually
got at BNP Paribas is AI will be
inflationary in the near term. At this
point, it seems like people are
readjusting their sense of what the
danger zone is in the bond market with
respect to how much it curtails risk
appetite. What's the new metric for the
danger zone? I'm using Max Kettner's
term over HSBC for say 10-year yields or
benchmark rates, and does that highlight
how maybe these aren't such restrictive
rates at the Fed currently to the rate
hiking point? It depends why rates are
rising. This sell-off has been
predominantly driven, at least the
latest leg in the US, by higher expected
short rates. And the reason we've priced
out rate cuts and we're beginning to
price in rate hikes is because of how
spectacularly strong the economy is
performing. The labor market's
performing better than anyone expected.
Claims are low. Weekly ADP hiring is
high. NFP is surprising to the upside.
So, the market's really having to
discount this backdrop in which the
economy is stronger than expected. So,
if rates are rising for good reason, so
to speak, it means risk assets, as we've
seen with credit, as we've seen with
equity, is
>> Still, it's still is problematic. I
mean, if you get to 5 and 1/2%, it's
still 5 and 1/2% even if it's for all
the right reasons.
I I think it really depends. If that's
reflecting higher expectations in net
neutral rates because growth is just so
strong, um risk assets may well be okay
with that. Are rates rising for the
right reasons over in Europe?
I don't know what you possibly mean.
Um
Yeah, look, in the in the UK, we've
clearly had some fiscal-related
sell-offs recently. Um but that's
actually come back now.
Um I think in across European bond
markets, across EGBs, they are actually
in large part rising um for for the
right reasons. At least at the long end
of the curve, it's predominantly related
to fiscal stimulus in Germany, which
remains a very important story and in
our view an important driver of why
European growth may be actually So, the
ECB hikes in June, you don't consider
that a hawkish policy mistake?
No, I don't think so. The ECB need to
respond to higher inflation expectations
given the energy shock.
Whether or not they hike more than our
central case, we have two hikes, June
and September. If they hike more than
that, then I think we could be getting
into the territory where the growth
impact will be quite negative and
therefore we could be looking in 2027 at
some reversal of those hikes. I think
the UK is a is a similar story. Right
now the market prices in hikes and then
it doesn't price a reversal of those
hikes. That looks a bit wrong to me,
looks a bit wrong to us. We think the
front end of curves could actually
flatten a little bit in that
environment. What is a policy mistake of
not hiking rates? What does that look
like and how realistic is that? It looks
like 2022
where you wait to see wage growth
evidence before responding to the shock
and at that point it's already too late
because the second round effects have
already kicked in.
Sam, that's scary stuff. A repeat of 22.
And we're not in that environment
because the starting point in 2022 was,
for example, in Europe rates were at
zero and inflation went to five. So, we
had a negative 5% real rate. This time
inflation was at two, rates were at two.
So, it was zero percent real rate. So,
you had a five percentage point
differential in real rates and the shock
is thus uh much less severe.
But, central banks remember 2022. They
remember perhaps being a little too slow
and I think that's why you have this
hawkish bias. Sam, it's good to see you.
Thanks for being here. Sam Lynton-Brown
there of BNP Paribas, haunted by 2022
over the ECB and maybe not 2008 or 2011,
which is perhaps what they should be
reminded of.
>> Well, but this is the ultimate
conundrum, right? On one hand you could
say if they could if they hike rates,
they could cause they could uh precede
some sort of crisis in growth. You could
also say if they don't hike rates, you
could proceed what could be a spike up
in inflation. The fact that we could
have really good argument on either side
gives you just how
>> [music]
>> inconclusive this moment
>> Loose loose. Exactly.
>> This summer is a central banker. Okay.
Um next on the program, we'll catch up
with Lori Calvasina of RBC, David
Bellinger of Mizuho, [music] Barbara
Reinhard of Voya Investment Management,
plus this one, the US Under Secretary of
Defense, Emil Michael. That's an
important conversation [music] in the
next hour. I'm Bloomberg Surveillance.
There's still this institutional
bias in favor of the US equity market
going higher. The bull market still
deserves the benefit of the doubt.
>> We eventually will see AI adoption
spread.
>> It's accelerating and it's not going to
slow down.
>> This technology is not going to stop, so
we have to invest in it.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. We're pulling back once
again. We're down by quarter of 1% on
the S&P after snapping a 3-day run of
declines in yesterday's session. This
morning, the losses resume. We're down
by 0.4% on the Nasdaq and decent numbers
from Nvidia not helping out this
morning.
>> [music]
>> In the bond market, yields are higher
again, particularly the front end of the
curve. Two's are higher by four basis
points to 4.1%.
In the commodity market, energy is
inching higher as well. Brent crude up
to 107 up by 1.9% going into this data
[music] in about 29 minutes time,
jobless claims in America. It has been
an incredibly low figure that just
[music] seems to get revised lower and
lower. We saw the lowest initial jobless
claims going back to 1969 [music] a
couple of weeks ago, is it still a
viable metric at a time where there's so
much transition and people are measuring
the economy in such a different way?
[music]
I ask this because we're talking about
the replacement of lower value human
capital with bots. I mean, it's horrible
the way that Bill Winters talked about
it. It's not showing up in the numbers.
So, people are saying, just as we were
having a conversation earlier in the
show, is it [music] right? Are we
reflecting the right things? What does
this mean? What is the signal telling
us?
>> Let's talk about price. There's always
signal in price and the signal and the
ability of corporations to pass on that
[music] price. Notable what's happened
with Walmart this morning. You've
mentioned it already a few times today.
This has been a central question in
economics. Do we need to hike interest
rates? How do we measure that? How do we
gauge that ahead of time? Couple ways of
doing that. You start with the labor
market. [music] How tight is this labor
market? Is consumer price tolerance high
enough to pass on higher costs, to allow
those higher costs, those higher prices
to become embedded more broadly in the
economy? Is that something the central
bank needs to respond to? I know it's a
very sort of narrow subset of companies
we're talking about right now, but what
you talked about from Walmart, from
Kroger,
I think it's [music] difficult to look
at that data and suggest that what we
need right now is interest rate hikes.
Walmart increased the amount of price
cuts, discounts [music]
that they did across the board. They
absorbed almost or virtually the
entirety of the increase in fuel costs
and they took it as a hit to their
margins, which is why they came in with
lower than expected earnings, even with
a consumer that all in all is holding in
strong. Then you saw Kroger CEO coming
out and saying that they're playing the
biggest cuts in years because they want
to compete better with Walmart. [music]
Does this give comfort to the Fed? On
the flip side, you have inflationary
inputs from AI. You have an inflationary
inputs from other metrics like airline
tickets. So, it opens up this
interesting question. Are these the
places that are cutting cutting prices
because they don't have the pricing
power [music] on some of the products
that say some of the airlines do where
people still want to travel and some of
the luxury products. Are we seeing
inflation in pockets in this dual
economy where you're seeing very
different speeds [music] in different
places?
>> Get to neutral, stay open-minded. Get to
neutral and stay open-minded. David
Kelly said it yesterday, enjoy the
summer. If you're a central bank right
now, take the summer off, don't do
anything. [music] Get to neutral, stay
open-minded. There's no argument for an
easing bias either, by the way, over
this Federal Reserve, and see how this
summer turns out, and see if we can
address the issue. Look, I know
everyone's sick to death of this
situation in the Middle East and the
ongoing headlines. The blockade
continues, then you get more headlines
from Reuters on Iran and keeping uranium
in the country, and crude starts to move
higher again. But ultimately, it's a
central issue. It's a central issue for
the outlook for prices and the outlook
for rates. [music]
>> You say get to neutral, and yes, there
is the Iran situation
>> mean take rates to neutral or whatever.
There's a big debate about that. I just
mean communication-wise.
>> What's interesting to me is that
actually you can make an argument
[music] to that point that we are at
neutral. And I think that that's the
easing bias that gets removed. That's
another way of thinking about [music]
it. Is if you get to neutral in your
guidance, you're saying, "This is
ultimately a neutral rate." Which you
can make an argument about because the
economy is going so strong.
>> That Federal Reserve meeting will have
Kevin Warsh, and it will also have
Chairman Powell, just as Governor
[music] Powell. So it's going to be an
interesting one in about a month's time.
Coming up this hour, Lori Calvasina of
RBC and SpaceX and OpenAI prepare to go
public. David Bellinger of Mizuho
breaking down earnings from Walmart, and
US Under Secretary of Defense Emil
Michael as the Pentagon weighs the risks
of AI. We'll begin this hour with tech
hungry investors gearing up for the
biggest IPOs in history. Lori Calvasina
of RBC writing, "Investors we spoke with
were interested in what else might offer
opportunity beyond semis, tech, and AI,
but had difficulty envisioning what
those were." Lori joins us now for more.
Lori, good morning. Good morning.
>> We're going to get a ton of IPOs, some
major IPOs in the next 12 months. Do you
sense there's enough demand out there to
absorb all of this supply? Well, you
know, to be honest, I try to stay out of
those conversations as much as possible.
Um but I do think that what we've seen
within the AI theme itself is a bit of a
broadening of the AI theme that people
have, you know, kind of owned what
they've owned and they're interested in
looking for new things within that
theme. And you know, to the quote you
guys had earlier when I was out seeing
investors in Europe last week, I mean it
it was really funny, John. Nobody wanted
to talk about the broader market. You
know, I would sort of like tell people
this is where our target is, this is
why, this is how we're baking in
inflation damage from the Middle East.
And they're like, "Okay, that's fine.
Let's talk about sectors."
And so just really wanting to go through
and look at the areas that are cheap. So
things like financials, healthcare,
energy, and sort of debate, you know, is
there opportunity to move it into some
of these things. And I think what people
were really struggling with was on the
one hand they felt like they'd been in a
lot of these semis names and you know,
maybe it's time to take some chips off
the table, but then you go and look at
the fundamentals of all the other stuff
and it gets quite hard for people. So to
me that illustrates this moment that
we're in in the market perfectly, which
is, you know, that just kind of clinging
to this stuff that has bigger cap
exposure is creeping that is causing us
to creep up, but then we have, you know,
like those three down days, people kind
of feel this urge to pull back and it's
sort of like they're fighting within
themselves.
>> it depends what seat you're in right
now. I had this conversation earlier
this week. If you're a technical
strategist and just look at the charts
of semis, I can see why you'd get
nervous because we saw semis just
explode higher and become really
detached from say the 50-day moving
average. We've seen all of that
analysis, but if you're a fundamental
investor and you just look at valuations
of the earnings profile of some of these
companies, any reason to worry? Well, so
I would say on the valuation metrics and
we look at the Russell 3000 semis, um
just that kind of GICS level 3 industry
and we have data I think we go back to
1989 and we look at like a median PE. So
it's not a cap-weighted time series, but
when you do that relative to the broad
market, we have crept up to recent
highs. We're not at all-time highs. Now,
obviously there are stocks where that
statement does not apply.
Um so I would say valuations do feel
like they've got a little more pressure
on them than they did a few months back.
When I look at earnings revision trends
though for semis, this is what I think
sort of captures again this complexity
of the moment. We're seeing, you know, a
lot of areas of the market that had been
at very high rates of upward revisions
and pulled back. You can say that for
probably like seven of the 11 gig
sectors.
If you look at semis in particular,
we're still up around peak-like rates of
upward revisions. So, earnings sentiment
is really high, and that's normally kind
of a scary chart as a strategist because
you don't want to be there when it
starts moving down. The problem is I
can't sit here with a straight face and
tell people to say short that space or
sell that space because if you go back
and look at the history of the past 30
years, sometimes we get stuck at peak
for a couple of years. So, what I've
told people is we just have to be
really, really vigilant in terms of
watching that area of the market. It
does feel to me like there's some
vulnerability to profit taking at some
point, but that does feel more
short-term in nature. You kept talking
about how people are looking to invest.
We keep hearing this. Cash to put to
work. At what point does the cash run
out? I mean, is this just a a big
transfer right now because people see
cash as a liability due to the inflation
in the economy? Well, look, I would say,
you know, my bread and butter are
long-only investors, and they're really
not allowed to sit on too much cash,
right? They need to be fully invested.
So, it really is about kind of moving
the chips around on the table. I think
it's a little bit different if you're
talking about retail investors. And
that's where I think sort of looking at
the labor market and the ability of the
retail investor to kind of keep goof
goosing stocks up. Um, you know, I I
think the cash issue matters there a
little bit more, but in my world, people
feel like they have to put money to
work.
>> I do have to get this sense of the
danger zone. I'm sorry to keep coming
back to it. But, Skender, thank you.
Copy right. I understand. Uh, with
respect to yields and at what point that
will start to crimp some of the appetite
and be an alternative in terms of income
driver for investors. Are we getting
close or has the bar just shifted
higher?
>> It's not an answer you can't just look
at yields in isolation, and I think
that's what's hard about this moment in
time. And so, I'm going to if if I can
indulge you in a little bit of math. Um,
and and Tom Keene would probably throw
something at me at this point. But, um,
if you look at my valuation model, um,
so what I've got baked into my 7,900
forecast, which by the way is a 12-month
number, it's like a 6% return. I've
never seen people so annoyed about me
being bullish with a 6% return. But
anyway, um Who got annoyed with you? Uh
people want me to be bearish. It's
really funny.
>> What What's Who are those people? Where
are they coming from?
>> I'm not going to say specifically, but
I'm saying I am feeling a little bit of
the Not Lisa. [laughter] Not Lisa. Just
like out in my in doing the course of my
day-to-day
>> a hated bull market? Is that what you
sense? That's crazy.
>> I think that I think in certain camps. I
think in certain camps. But going back
to the valuation, I've got 3.3 CPI baked
in, a flat Fed, and 4 and 1/2 10-year
yields.
I take the consensus earnings haircut on
by 5%. Within that, I leave the AI
numbers alone, and I take everything
else down by about 7 and 1/2%. Um versus
consensus, not an over overall cut. That
gives me 7,929 as a fair value estimate
for the S&P in 12 months' time. If I put
3.8 on inflation, if I take a couple of
hikes and put them in, and 5% on 10-year
yields, use the same earnings, I can get
you to 7,400 on the S&P, which is about
where we're stuck now. But if I want to
really bear that number up,
>> Bear it up.
>> I've got to cut the earnings. And so if
I cut earnings, not just haircut the
consensus by 5%, but put a 5%
year-over-year decline on the 1 Q2 7
earnings, then I can get you 6,300. And
all that is to show is that it's a
sliding scale. The P The PE is
negatively impacted by the Fed, by
10-year yields, by inflation. All of
that stuff moving up pushes the
But the PE is then used against the
earnings, and the earnings forecast are
astronomically strong right now. And
even if we haircut them, you know, kind
of that non-AI part, but the typical,
you know, number by which they're too
high, I'm still getting a, you know,
really reasonable number on the market.
I can get you up 6%, I can keep you
flat. But if I want to take you down, I
got to attack the earnings, and you got
to attack the AI piece of that, not just
the rest of it.
>> We've gone over this as the two year
just turns to 4.1% by the way, an issue
shock, rate shock, for it to become an
earnings problem, you've got to believe
it becomes a growth shock. We haven't
seen that yet. You just haven't seen
that yet. Because the note of growth
right now is not stemming from consumer
demand and isn't stemming from some of
the areas that are getting hit by these
other areas. It's being driven by a
secular overlay that is independent from
cycles because of the hope of what AI
can accomplish.
>> 10s right now at 4.60 not the danger
zone. Nope. Apparently. See your point.
I'm with you. At some point you climb
fast enough that investors start to get
a bit jittery about the potential for a
hit to growth. But clearly based on how
things have played out, we're not there
yet. Love the math in the morning,
actually.
I actually really love that because I
love that people are saying, "Come on,
Lori. Bear it up." And she's thinking,
"How do I bear this thing up?" And it's
like, "All right, I got to cut this over
here." But it gives that you a sense of
how high the bar is for for the It's
been a hated bull market.
>> And look, I since GFC.
If if I could just say one more thing, I
think there's this whole accusation of
the equity market has been complacent
and doesn't understand what's going on
in the Middle East. I don't think that
is true. I have talked to enough
investors that are worried and wary and
paying attention. But I think that if
you're a portfolio manager who's looking
at the earnings and looking at the
companies, you are getting hit in the
face every single day with the strength
of this AI earning story. And by the
way, the rest of the market is filling
people's ears with commentary about how
they're really good at managing through
crises and their numbers haven't
collapsed either. So, from a bottom-up
perspective, it is very, very hard to
just make the worst-case scenario
assumptions and make that your base
case.
>> there's some career risk involved as
well. If you're a PM right now and
you're not involved in some of these
names that are driving higher, you get
to year end and you weren't in it,
that's a big problem. Especially cuz
inflation's going to create a real
negative return for any cash or safer
instruments. What's the big risk right
now? And ultimately right now the risk
for a lot of people is not being
involved in that. I'm just going to
remove Lori from this part of the
conversation because I'm sure she want
nothing to do with what I'm about to
say. I also think there's a lot of skin
in the game now with these major IPOs
set to come to market in the next 12
months that people need to speak quite
favorably about this equity market to
make sure the dancing continues, the
music keeps playing, and we get this
away because there is a lot of money to
be made going into year end. Are the
fees tied to IPOs?
>> Astronomical. All the bridge loans, all
the other deals that would come to the
fore to the fore as a result of this.
There clearly is an incentive to talk
favorably and see them all go off as
well as the repo market.
>> Lori back into the conversation now.
>> [laughter]
>> If TK ever throws anything at you, throw
something back, all right? Lori
Calvasina of RBC. Lori, thank you.
Appreciate it. Thank you very much.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. He Yara has more. Hey
Yara. Hi John. Stellantis unveiled a
sweeping turnaround plan focused on
boosting profits by concentrating
investments on a handful of key brands.
The [music] company says it will invest
$70 billion through 2030, launch more
than 60 new vehicles, and cut [music]
billions in annual costs, but investors
appear skeptical with shares down 4% in
the premarket.
Samsung reached a deal with its chip
workers to avoid a strike agreeing to a
long-term bonus program tied to profit
[music] targets. The company could
distribute as much as 40 trillion won
over 10 years with employees receiving
on average annual payout of about 513
[music]
million won or $340,000
if targets [music] are met.
And the AI agent Anthropic is on pace
for its first profitable quarter. The
company seeing a surge in revenue driven
by demand for its AI software. The cloud
maker [music] expects to post nearly $11
billion in revenue for the second
quarter and more than doubling
>> [music]
>> from the prior 3-month period. That's
your Bloomberg brief, John. Yara, thank
you. Thank you for the update. Um next
on the program, the Morning Calls plus
David Beninger of Mizuho on Walmart's
mixed earnings report. That conversation
just around the corner Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Right now, I think it's all hands-on
deck. There is so much money to be made
in the AI [music] space that whether
it's 4% 6% 8% on interest rates is
trivial. Unlike dot-com where I think
everyone was excited, [music] there is
so much angst around this. From a
personal level, I don't think we've ever
seen anything like this. That was Peter
Tchir of Academy Securities. Really
thoughtful conversation. [music] Catch
the full conversation on Bloomberg.com
and on the Bloomberg terminal. Really
echoing what Lisa's talking [music]
about. At what point does this bond
market start to cause real problems?
Haven't really seen them. So, a 2% move
on the S&P 500 over three sessions. In
the equity market this morning, we're
down by a third of 1%. On the Nasdaq,
we're down by 0.5. If you check out the
bond market,
>> [music]
>> yields starting to creep a little bit
higher. Lisa keeps talking about the
so-called danger zone that Mark Kettner
of over HSBC talks about. 460 apparently
[music] isn't it. Yields up by two basis
points this morning. 4.1 at the front
end of the curve apparently isn't it.
Yields up by four basis points on twos.
And when I saw those minutes yesterday,
and they were super hawkish by the way,
I looked at the price mark, the price
action, and the market reaction to them.
Pretty tepid stuff. And because they
don't even [music] begin to approach the
hawkishness of a market that's pricing
in a rate hike come early next year. And
they're saying, "What's taking you so
long? Why are you then maintaining an
easing bias at all?" That to me is the
most dovish sign of all that there was
no argument in there for for
>> [music]
>> keeping the easing bias in place. There
is the skepticism being played out in
the bond market, but all the equity
analysts say it doesn't become a problem
because ultimately it's rising for the
right reasons, which is that growth has
been strong. If it starts rising for the
wrong reason, say that US government
debt is now $35 trillion and potentially
rising and then that's potentially a
problem given how quickly it's moved up.
You know, that could be a different
story, but for now it isn't necessarily
putting an end to this.
>> Mike Cannon at Cushion Biotics, right?
CIBC, Chris Harvey, 80/20 new price
target year end on the S&P 500 earnings.
Earnings, earnings, earnings, every
single upgrade we've seen to the S&P
500, whether it's Lori Calvessina of
RBC, whether it's Barclays, Morgan
Stanley, [music] or Ed Yardley, they've
all pointed to the same thing, powerful
earnings. And we've seen it in terms of
how much has been delivered above and
beyond and it isn't just [music] what
we're seeing in big tech, but big tech
is certainly driving it and the margins
are just incredible. I mean, some of the
earnings growth that you're seeing in
Nvidia is like 95%. That's the
expectation for next quarter, year over
year. If you take a look at their sales,
they've doubled since the first quarter
of 2025. This is a catastrophically
[music] amazing things. It's not exactly
a phrase that I'm ever going to use
again, but
>> Going forward, that's what people are
looking at.
I mean, it's I It's a bit off brand.
But you might do. Catastrophic.
Catastrophically amazing, I think it's
right on brand. Let's get you some
morning calls this morning with one
stock in focus, Nvidia. First up,
Goldman Sachs raising its price target
to 285, seeing further upside potential
in rising capex expectations. A second
call from Morgan Stanley
>> [music]
>> raising its price target to 288. The
analyst calling Nvidia the best value in
semis. And finally, Baird hiking its
price target to a street high, 500
bucks. The firm's model showing [music]
gains in inferencing and growth well
ahead of hyperscale AI capex. That stock
is negative by about 0.1% this morning.
Sticking with earnings, Walmart shares
falling in the premarket after solid
sales growth failed to offset concerns
over rising energy costs. David Baliga
of Mizuho with an outperform rating on
the shares and a 137 price target. David
joins us now for more. David, good
morning, good to see you. Good great,
thanks for having me on.
>> Stocks down about 2%. Earnings call is
underway. This phrase came up, investing
in price. We've been talking about that.
Are they struggling to pass it on or is
this just a fight for market share?
Yeah, I think it's the fight for market
share. So, very in-line quarter. It
seems like in-line isn't enough these
days, especially if you as you have more
of this consumer pressure building. The
the tax refund payments basically
fizzled out. I mean, those were up 18%
year-over-year. Now, you've also got
consumers going straight into the teeth
of these $4.50, potentially $5 gas
prices. Walmart's seeing that, I think
in their business, incremental pressures
on the low end, but they're also seeing
it on the cost side. And that that's
what hit them today. Talked about 250
basis points that was shaved off of
operating income dollar growth because
of higher fuel cost. But I think what's
concerning investors today is that
that's only a partial period impact for
Q1. So, the full force hasn't hit in Q2,
Q3, and Q4. So, we'll we'll see what's
to come as prices have to move up across
the space, but Walmart is making a
very
pinpoint move, very decided move to keep
prices down as much as possible, as long
as possible. And this is a a share gain
story.
>> in the strongest position to do it?
versus say a Kroger versus a Target. Are
they in the best position to do this?
Yes, I would say absolutely. If you
think about the alternative and creative
business lines Walmart has, advertising,
marketplace, these are really high
margin, great businesses. Those are a
source of funds to invest. Think of
those as Walmart's AWS. Like Amazon has
AWS to go after retail pricing, take all
the share. Walmart has elements of that.
Others in retail, they they don't really
have that
you know, cookie jar to dip into that
bucket. So, Walmart is better positioned
than most and that that's why we still
like this name. Walmart's investing
heavily in artificial intelligence.
They've been talking about how they're
trying to transmit it to each one of
their associates as they call them,
their employees. I'm looking right now
at the number of employees at Walmart.
It's gone from 2.3 million to 2.1
million and sort of stayed at that
level. Is that a positive for the stock
in the sense that they are investing
more in AI and seeing where they can get
efficiencies elsewhere? For sure. For
sure. We don't expect head count cuts at
Walmart. It's more of keep this employee
count pretty stable and then you can
grow in incremental revenues off of
that. So a more powerful flow through,
more powerful earnings model. But
they're talking about the business being
very people led but tech powered. So So
it's more of an amplifier for their
employee base as opposed to cuts or
anything like that. But it it should
have you know cost savings throughout
the business. And then we've done a lot
of work around agentic commerce, which
is extremely extremely early days. But
that could put Walmart up at the top of
the list. Again, more of the share gain,
especially if they have lowest price,
fastest speed. That's what this agentic
shopping will prioritize and we think
Walmart's in a good spot from that
perspective as well. So bear with me,
but a lot of places are talking about
the idea of keeping their staff the
same, maybe shrinking just a little bit,
and then gaining a significant amount of
market share.
Where are they taking the market share
from? Who's losing on the other side of
this as they do more with less? Yeah,
it's great question. So a lot of these
large cap, you know, mega retailers,
Walmart, Amazon, Costco, they've been
gaining share, especially in the grocery
category is one that gives you that
frequency of purchase. You get add-ons
into other categories. But it's a lot of
these, you know, smaller retailers, not
as much uh investment over the last
several years. And then a lot of these
private guys, you know, mom and pop type
stores.
That's where they don't have the
capability to invest to do such
expedited delivery. Look at Walmart
today. Store orders up about 50%
fulfilled from the store. A lot of that
is done within 3 hours or less. A lot of
them 1 hour or less. And Walmart's even
doing 30-minute deliveries. So, if you
have that capability, you're definitely
gaining share. It's expensive, takes a
long time to build. You'll get hit with
higher fuel cost in the process. But at
the end of the day, it seems like a
net-net winning strategy that you get
all this share accumulated and it's
pretty sticky. Stock is down by 2% so
far this morning. David, good to see
you. Thanks for being here. David
Beninger there of Mizuho on Walmart and
the fight for market share in the retail
space this morning. And that fight is
picking up with Kroger in the mix as
well.
>> Yeah, Kroger's trying to hang on by
cutting prices potentially in order to
compete with Walmart. Walmart right now
is saying, "We'd rather miss or be a
sort of slightly off or in line and
continue to gain market share." Again,
this is the rearranging of our
understanding of what retail looks like
going forward, especially because some
places just do not have the capabilities
to keep up.
>> To that exact point, David was talking
about it. They've got the business model
to do it. The Amazons of this world have
got the business model to do it. The
other probably don't have the business
model to do it. Walmart down in the
premarket negative by about 2%. Up next
on the program, we'll get you some
jobless claims data that drops in just a
moment. We'll get reaction from Barbara
Reinhard of Voya Investment Management.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Equities declining by 0.4%
on the S&P. [music]
Bond yields a bit higher, up by five
basis points on twos. And in the
commodity market, [music] crude up by
close to 3%. WTI at 101, Brent at 107.
Equity futures on the S&P down here by
third of 1% on the Nasdaq. We're
negative by 0.5. In the bond market,
yields climbing going into jobless
claims up by five basis points now on
twos. The sell-off in fixed income
resumes north of 460 [music] on tens
again up by three basis points on the
session. The initial catalyst for some
of this price action was early this
morning in the commodity market. Brent
and WTI creeping higher. WTI by 3%.
Brent crude up by 2.3 to 107. Some
[music] tension in the negotiations in
the Middle East. Let's across asset
price action. Let's get you some data.
Mike McKee has the latest. Morning,
Mike.
Good morning, John. Everybody keeping an
eye on jobless claims. Isn't going to
get a whole lot of information. No
change almost. 209,000.
Last week a revised 212. So, we're
really not seeing many changes there.
And the continuing claims number
1,782,000
just up a little bit from 1,776
the week before. The interesting thing
is Bloomberg Economics has a piece out
that suggests that maybe jobless claims
are being distorted by efforts by states
to cut down on fraud and that's why
we're not getting a comparative rise in
jobless claims, but we'll just have to
keep an eye on that. Philadelphia Fed is
out and the Philly Fed number goes to
negative .04 from 26.7. A big drop.
Prices paid at 47.9.
That is down from 59.3. Surprisingly.
And prices received at 26.3.
That's down from 33.5. So, a little bit
of an odd number there in terms of the
pricing numbers. And housing starts come
in at 1,465,000
down from 1,507. That's a 2.8 % drop.
Building permits up by 5.8%. We'll see
if that translates into actually
anything. What people are really going
to be watching, guys, is a little bit
later this morning. We get the S&P
Global US Manufacturing PMI Services and
Composite. Those will be the preliminary
numbers for May and we saw downturns in
Europe when those numbers came out as
the war starts to take a turn on the
economies and we'll see if we get that
same result here. And they've had a
rough run when it comes to the PMIs over
on the continent. Mike, thank you for
that. Every single time we get jobless
claims, claims drop, tumbleweed. No
story here whatsoever. Nothing to talk
about. Everything's okay, apparently. I
mean, to me it's flatlining, right?
Which is the reason why people are
thinking is this thing still on?
Everything okay over there? Is this
actually a signal in any way? If it is a
signal, it's being taken as things
really are not deteriorating materially
in the labor market, which checks out
with some of the spending data and some
of the other labor market metrics. And
the response then is maybe not only are
we at neutral, but potentially the Fed
could have to hike. I was looking at the
warp function, looking at Fed funds
rate, the the imagine, the the
expectation for any kind of rate hikes
or cuts. We're now almost pricing in a
full rate hike by December. Just giving
you a sense of how much we're pulling
forward those expectations. Let's talk
about the deterioration in the bond
market this morning. Bonds down, yields
up five basis points higher on Tuesday
4.1% on the 10-year this morning, still
high by three or four basis points, back
up at 460, 462 this morning. Barbara
Reinhard of Voya Investment Management
writing the AI boom will come to an end,
but we think it's too soon to call the
end. What worries us is the bond market.
Barbara joins us now for more. Barbara,
good morning. Good morning. What worries
you about the bond market this morning?
Well, the backup in rates is somewhat
concerning for the equity market, which
is why the equity market has come under,
you know, a little bit of pressure over
the past couple of weeks of as bond
yields have been rising. There's always
a continuum and a place where bond
yields rise high enough that P/E
multiples start to contract, and that's
kind of the scenario that you saw in
2022. We don't think that we're there.
We think that the inflation surprises
that we've seen have really all been
supply driven by the price of oil, not
demand driven like it was in 2022 when
there was a lot of money in circulation
and consumers had a lot of pent-up
demand.
But, we do note in order to get the
price of oil sustainably down, you need
to see some resolution in the Middle
East.
>> square one, all over again. I've got no
idea when we get any kind of solution to
the situation in the Middle East. So,
energy creeps higher just a little bit
more again this morning. Yields creep
higher as well. Going to ask Alissa a
question. Alissa's asked it a million
times. At some point, that bond market
becomes a problem. What is that point?
Oh, that's a tough That's a tough
question to ask. 5% was the big problem
in 2022 on the US Treasury 10-year. You
know, we're inching up. It's also been
the speed of the increase in bond yields
that causes the problem, too. So, it's
really twofold. Not only the exact
level, but the speed of the increase.
And this has been a a fast rise in bond
yields. But, I would note the
fundamental change at the margin on the
news out of the Middle East seems to be
inching towards a resolution. Every time
you hear a little bit of good news on a
resolution, oil prices come down below
100. That tends to help the bond market,
and certainly helps the equity market,
like you saw yesterday. But, Alissa, you
pointed out
the fundamental data in the US is
relatively strong. And, you know, part
of it is that the US has much more
energy independence, and also is a more
efficient consumer of oil,
uh which makes it the effect of higher
oil prices a little bit less in the US
than it is, say, in the rest of the
world, specifically in Europe. Do you
think that the earnings that we're
seeing in big tech are incompatible with
the
strength in earnings that we're seeing
in some of the other companies that are
seeing pressures from some of the cycle,
uh based on whether it's oil prices, or
whether it's pockets of weakness in the
consumer? Well, you know, you have to
look at sales growth. And sales growth
for 1 Q looks like it's up 10%. So, this
is not opera- operating margins just
expanding. This is actual underlying
sales growth. So, the demand story looks
to be pretty solid to us. Of course, the
longer that this conflict in the Middle
East continues, the more it starts to
weigh on sentiment, the more it
continues to somewhat cloud the outlook,
but you didn't see that in 1Q earnings.
So, I think we're on a clear side for
just a while longer. Do you think that
people are looking for a bearish side? I
mean, do you think that people are
looking for a reason to feel bad and
they say, "Oh, it's the bond market."
which is what we just heard from Lori
Calvasina and then she looks at the
earnings and she's like, "I really can't
I can't find anything." Right. Um I So,
I think there's two things going on. So,
we've looked at this at Voya in great
detail.
You know, you had two big secular bear
markets in 2000 through 2003 and then
'07 through '09. Those were bigger than
50% declines in equities. It takes an
average of 25 years for an investor to
forget a secular bear market like that.
So, we're just at the point where we're
getting past the scars of the TMT bubble
in 2000. So, I think this little bearish
tilt that you see into the market, this
kind of always calling for the end is
nigh, is likely to be with us for a
while just because of that behavioral
finance segment that we've been so
scarred, not once but twice in a 10-year
time period and we're not that far away
from it.
>> Did that feel personal?
Well, I just saw you start and laugh.
It's time to laugh and [laughter] I just
thought, you know. You know, you know,
you know, I was laughing. I was laughing
about the Homer Simpson, the end is
nigh. We can't tell with the like thing.
I mean, I was just thinking, you know,
there are quite a few little Homer
Simpsons running around right now.
>> Well, I mean while I was thinking Lisa
and I had this nice moment.
>> [laughter]
>> It was a nice moment. It was a nice
moment.
>> a great connection that you understood.
Not a bullish connection. Just, you
know, just in case you thought it was
that. Just saw this headline I wanted to
bring it to you just briefly. So, when
there was this big stress, the initial
energy shock, certain currencies were
exposed to that and certain central
banks, certain jurisdictions had to
protect their currencies, defend them.
Over in Turkey, the initial conversation
was about liquidating gold reserves to
defend the currency. Just saw this
headline cross that Turkey liquidated
almost all of its US Treasury holdings
back in March.
>> It opens the question of how much the
weakness that we're seeing in Treasuries
right now is due to central bank selling
to defend their currencies and defend
their economies due to the oil price
shock. Turkey liquidated, it sounds like
pretty much everything or quite a bit in
order to defend its currency. It again
goes to the question of who will the
ultimate buyer be for some of this debt?
I wouldn't take Turkey as a signal for
all other central banks or necessarily
global dynamics. Nonetheless, again, on
the margins, some of the big ballast of
the bond market are facing their own
pressures and are having to actually use
their cash. The team here at Bloomberg
just breaking down the numbers just to
share them with you. The amount of
treasuries held by Turkey fell to 1.8
billion by the end of March, down from
16 billion dollars the previous month.
So, not a massive amount in the context
of the overall treasury market, but real
money. Barbara Reinhardt of Voya
Investment Management, Barbara, thank
you. It's good to see you. Thank you,
John.
>> moment. I shared I was happy to be here
to witness it. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohaira Hasmore, hey Yohaira. Hi
John.
Recapping that data we just got, jobless
claims coming in at 209,000 last week.
That's just lower than estimates.
Continuing claims meanwhile coming in at
1.78 million, ticking up slightly from
the previous week.
Iran's supreme leader ordering that the
country's near weapons grade uranium
should not be sent abroad. Reuters
reporting that Iran's top officials
believe sending the material [music]
outside would leave the country more
vulnerable to future attacks.
And crews at New York's LaGuardia
Airport are working to repair a sinkhole
discovered at one of the hubs two
runways. The hole forced
>> [music]
>> hundreds of flight disruptions
Wednesday, making for a slow start to
Memorial Day weekend travel. Some delays
and cancellations were reported again
this morning.
>> [music]
>> That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohaira, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, don't miss this.
The US Under Secretary [music] for
Defense, Ami Bera Michael live from
Washington with Amber Lee in the
nation's capital. That conversation just
around the corner in DC from New York.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
We have a very, very different strategy
on AI. We've embraced at BNY AI as a
superpower. AI for us means growth and
opportunity. [music] The rationalization
over the last couple of years we've
largely dealt with through attrition.
That's taken excess capacity out of the
firm in a more strategic [music] way
which I think our employees are very
pleased to see. A very different
approach from the BNY CFO. That was
Dermot McDonogh on the program a little
bit earlier. That stock has had a
fantastic [music] run trading under BNY
as of today. Equity futures right now
the S&P pulling back by a third of 1% on
the S&P. On the Nasdaq we're down by
0.5%.
Tech in focus and tensions between the
Pentagon and AI giant Anthropic
remaining still quite high. A federal
court signaling it may uphold the DoD's
push to designate the company as a
supply chain risk. Annmarie is in
Washington with a special guest. Hey
Annmarie.
Hey Jonathan, good morning. AI is not
just dominating Wall Street. It's also
dominating the conversations here in
Washington, especially when it comes to
the US industrial complex. An individual
that's in the middle of this fight with
Anthropic has been the Pentagon's Under
Secretary of Research and Engineering
Emel Michael. Thank you so much for
joining us. Good to be here. The last
time I spoke to you actually was after
this fight really brewed out into the
public and you had called the Anthropic
CEO as having a god complex. Now it
seems like this federal appeals court
kind of agrees with the DoD. So if this
stands is the Pentagon truly ready to
not use Anthropic and its models?
Yeah, well when they were declared a
supply chain risk uh they took that to
court not us. We were ready to start a
6-month transition
uh out of their uh using their services.
And by the way, there's a lot of other
companies that are very willing and able
and excited about serving us because we
just signed deals with Microsoft, Open
AI, SpaceX, Nvidia. So, we've got great
great other partners there. Has the
conversation stopped with Anthropic or
have you been in touch with them? Uh
it's conversation stopped and you sue
someone, you know, you usually stop
talking. How awkward though is is it
though because Dario Amodei was recently
at the White House having a meeting with
Susie Wiles and other parts of the
government are using Methos?
Yeah, well, the thing is
I the way I put Methos
is in a category with other cyber
models. Some of these models are
becoming very effective at cyber
capabilities. And what I mean by that,
helping you find vulnerabilities in your
own code. That could mean that you could
use it for defensive purposes to harden
your network. It also means that a bad
actor could use it for offensive
purposes to hack code. So, we have to as
a government treat all these new
capabilities in a different way than
we've ever treated anything like this
before to make sure our networks are
patched, our community hospitals are
protected, our utilities, everything
that uses software and technology.
So, you'll see us as a US government
looking at all these models and and and
working with them. You're seeing
everything right now. Is there anything
that is up to the same level as
Anthropic? Yes, and I'll tell you why.
Part of the reason these models are good
at cyber is because of the coding
revolution. All these all these AI
models help you code. That code helps
you train the next model on what good
and bad code looks like. So, if you
recall that cloud code was first out of
the gate, but then Open AI launched
Codex and then Elon Musk at SpaceX AI
will have you know, something similar
and those models will naturally evolve
to be good at code. So, you're I'm
talking about every month or two you
will see another drop of a model that
has similar capabilities.
>> So just to be clear though, even though
the DOD and you're describing it as
supply chain risk, it is okay for other
parts of the government you think safe
to use it? What if it was like a Huawei
that was described as supply chain risk?
Should Treasury or Commerce be able to
use it? We have to remember we have a
specific mission at the Department of
War. Our specific mission is to protect
the American people and to do to protect
our warfighters. And if the terms of
service that company gives us prevent us
from doing that. For example, it says in
their terms of service we can't develop
weapon systems. We can't use it for
battlefield management applications. We
can't use it to direct interceptions
from an incoming drone or a missile
attack. That's not the same thing that
Commerce is worried about or HHS is
worried about. So this risk is specific
to the DOW and their ideology about not
wanting to service in the way we need to
be served.
>> You mentioned all these partners you're
working with. Recently I saw that Google
some employees wrote to the executives
saying we don't want to work with the
Pentagon. We don't want this company to
do this. Are you seeing pushback from AI
world of a weekend where the future of
this country booed commencement speakers
the second they mentioned the words AI
or artificial intelligence? Yeah, I
think to you know to to address the
Google things, I think 600 out of their
100,000 employees or less than 1% sort
of had an issue with it. And I think
they've learned from the activism of 10
years ago when employees wanted to
import their political opinions into the
company's strategy. These companies are
public companies, you know, they they
have a lot of public shareholders. So
the leadership has to do what's good for
their shareholders.
Um when it comes to
you know the AI reputation and where
they rank for the American people, the
military is here
and the AI companies are down here and
it's because the leadership keep talking
about job loss and loss of
loss of sort of sovereignty as an
individual. I think that's wrong. I
think they should talk about what AI can
do. Help you maybe more efficient, help
you grow your business, help you cure
diseases, help you do things that it can
do. And I'm encouraging all of them to
talk about that piece because I don't
believe the bad piece, but I but I do
believe in the good piece.
>> Standard Chartered CEO said that they're
replacing jobs with
replacing quote lower value human
capital with AI. Do you see your rank
and file embracing AI or they pushing
back and concerned about also jobs?
Yeah, so the Department of War, we are
embracing AI. We went from 80,000 users
before we deployed AI broadly to the
department to about 1.5 million out of
our 3 million
employees and contractors. So, we're
seeing great great interest. And the
reason is because it's making their jobs
easier and it's letting them do more in
less time. So, I think some of these
companies are using AI as an excuse to
slim down the companies they already
wanted to slim down.
Uh where we're using it and we're not
shrinking to increase the productivity
of employees. I just got back with the
president from China. You mentioned how
Anthropic is on the same level as you're
thinking Open AI and what Elon Musk is
doing in terms of xAI. Where is China
right now? How close is the competition?
Well,
uh you know, the Chinese have
historically,
um
you know, benefited, let's say, from the
IP of the American companies that have
built really stolen So, it's what's been
stolen.
Um and the way these AI models are
stolen is by called what's called a
distillation attack. They sort of hit
the model and so on.
Um but that only goes so far. So, I
think our lead over China 6-12 months
will continue to grow
uh because we'll be better at figuring
out how to stop those attacks and just
because we have the chips, we have the
know, we have the researchers, and we
have competition in this country.
Uh so, I think we're just going to
outpace them. Emil Michael, thank you so
much for your time today.
>> being here. John, of course, that was
the Under Secretary for war for research
at the Department of War, Emil Michael.
Really interesting. 6 to 12 months, he
says we have that race when it comes to
China. AnneMarie, thank you. Appreciate
the update. Great work this morning down
in Washington, D.C. More from AnneMarie
through the next 24 hours or so.
Remember tomorrow, the main event really
for us here in financial markets,
particularly the Treasury market and
interest rates, Kevin Warsh getting
sworn into the White House to be the
next Fed chair. When I was listening to
Emil there about the Defense Department,
we're not shrinking, I was like, yeah,
no sign of you guys shrinking anytime
soon given the risks on the horizon and
the push to get a bigger budget down in
Washington. Yeah, and to finance all of
the conflicts that have been brewing,
especially given the pace of
technological change that they've got to
brush up over into the Defense
Department.
>> What a massive year we've got ahead of
us. We could see not one, not two, but
three
of the biggest IPOs we have ever seen in
the history of financial markets. Ed
Ludlow is going to be tracking the story
for us on Bloomberg Technology, and Ed
joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the program, buddy. What are you hearing
about SpaceX, about OpenAI, and how long
do we have to wait before we see
Anthropic?
Yeah, a wild 24 hours.
You know, the SpaceX imminency is is is
is probably the biggest story, right?
And you know, it was fascinating to go
through the S-1 with a fine-tooth comb,
understand the debt implications, you
know, the exposure markets already have
to SpaceX. The banks that are lead left
or not lead left, doesn't really matter.
But the timing of the reporting that
OpenAI is also thinking about filing as
soon as Friday or in the coming weeks is
interesting. And you know, when you
phone up investors in an environment
like this, you're trying to understand
the SpaceX S-1 or a world where you
would have a SpaceX IPO in June or July
and then OpenAI in September and
Anthropic in October, there's not
infinite liquidity in a market like
this. The banks are all working on the
same deal, but think about the kind of
crossover and cornerstone investors that
you'd want on board. And so, that's been
fascinating, but um you know, SpaceX has
has gone out the gate quickest um and
will try to do the biggest IPO of all
time. Uh
these are all really smart people who
are doing the finances at these
companies. So, they're trying to rush to
get in during the peak valuation moment.
Yeah, I mean the the the the story I
always come back to and could not be
more apparent from the SpaceX S-1 is why
would SpaceX even want to go public? Um
it would knowing the context that Elon
Musk is not a fan of of public market
governance. They need the capital and
and that the mechanism of the IPO, even
though private markets have been
absolutely willing to do very very high
rounds. Um
they need that money to fund the
business plan. You know, if you're going
to raise $75 billion,
it's for a reason. And for for SpaceX,
it's as simple as buying the GPUs for
their data centers in orbit. And the
story with OpenAI and Anthropic is they
are vastly compute constrained. You
know, they keep arguing if we had more
compute, we could do more things, show
better revenue growth, and improve our
finances overall. Uh the IPO is the best
mechanism for that. That's my
understanding.
>> Ed, isn't it notable we're not talking
about Nvidia this morning. It used to be
the headline act in tech. And this
morning, waking up, I've mentioned
tumbleweed twice now. It's just like
tumbleweed going across
New York. Nobody's talking about it at
We just had the the same debate for the
show. You know, SpaceX is probably the
lead, right? Um Nvidia's completely flat
in the pre-market. And generally
speaking, the market sees it as a clean
beat. But we knew that whatever the the
numbers in the quarter gone and and the
outlook for the period, it didn't really
matter. You know, Nvidia's principal
argument is that their growth is
tracking beyond hyperscaler capex. So,
they they leaned on the fact that a
capex will be a trillion in '27 and it's
on track for 4 trillion by the end of
the decade and they're growing beyond
that. And they have this number a $1
trillion backlog. It is just Blackwell
Ruben systems and it ranges from
calendar 25 to 27. But if you hit FA go
on your Bloomberg terminal and try and
track what the street sees as being
revenues between calendar 25 and the end
of 27, we're not at 1 trillion. So so
there's something that's still missing
here in what the market believes in the
Nvidia story longer term beyond the
moment that we're in right now. Ed, it's
good to see you. Looking forward to the
program. Great reporting as always. Ed
Ludlow there of Bloomberg Technology
alongside Caroline Hyde coming up in a
few [snorts] hours time. When you speak
to Ed and anyone in Ed's world, they
talk about compute constraints, supply
constraints, energy constraints. When I
talk to you and people in financial
markets, it's a different conversation.
There are capital demands here, there
and everywhere
to funnel into this particular venture,
this massive push to really go after
this technology. And I just wonder how
quickly we become capital constrained.
How quickly investors start to push
back?
>> It's a great It's a great question. A
lot of the bankers are trying to get
ahead of that as Ed was talking about
given the fact that they know it's not
unlimited. It also explains why some of
them are trying to rush it out, right?
SpaceX is first. Uh Cerebras was a
clarion sign to everybody, let's get
this going. And then of course OpenAI
wants to be Anthropic for a lot of
reasons, but also to uh suck up some of
that demand. I will say on the Nvidia
tumbleweed point, I find this really
interesting. Especially given a story in
the Financial Times I thought was really
excellent about how much 40% of their
free cash flow they are pouring into
investments in the whole ecosystem. They
are intimately connected to the success
of all of the hyperscalers, of all of
the small product investment They're
investing The investment is just massive
in terms of the footprint throughout the
industry. How do you gauge that? How do
you sort of price out what that will
ultimately mean?
>> Where's the opportunity? Where's the
risk? It's going to be quite six months
ahead of us. Going to year-end, that's
for sure. Coming up tomorrow, Brian
[music] Levitt of Invesco, the nice
president and Martin looking forward to
that. Alex Altman of Barclays and Yelena
Shulyatyeva of the Conference [music]
Board. From New York City this morning,
good morning. Thank you very much for
choosing Bloomberg TV. Have a wonderful
day. We'll see you tomorrow morning.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.